---
  layout: "project"
  title: "One-stop service system for mountaineering application"
  excerpt: "It's not that hard to get close to the mountains!"
  image: "/assets/imgs/00af78663a0fe6c4be1174b28993e9d9f5ee25af.jpeg"
  author: "葉寧"
  category: "project"
  project: "登山申請一站式服務網"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "登山申請一站式服務網"
    - "青年參與"
    - "協作"
    - "工作坊"
    - "公私協力"
---

## The story begins here 

Early in 2019, the famous celebrity in the mountain world, Brother G (Wu Jiyun), rushed down the mountain trail of Wushuangshe in Penjushan, triggering heated discussions in the mountaineering community. Six million people engage in mountaineering activities, and really deal with the problem, not the person who has the problem. Therefore, Zhang Jingsen, an administrative member who is also a senior mountain friend, coordinated the relevant agencies and started dialogues with mountaineering groups. After gradually establishing mutual trust, an open mountain forest policy was established with the core concepts of simple administration, convenient information, and shared risk management. 
This kind of policy change has begun to make everyone think that related mechanisms or laws should not only meet the needs of regulators, but also take into account the needs of users. The first step into the mountain forest-mountaineering application, was soon noticed: national park admission application, police station entry application, forestry bureau mountain house and nature reserve application, there are four independent systems, although the competent authorities are different 2. Jurisdiction of affairs has different natural results, but why not integrate them together? 
The competent authority responded immediately and launched the ["Taiwan Mountaineering Application Integration Information Network"](https://mountain.cpami.gov.tw/). As the name implies, it is to integrate information about various systems related to existing mountaineering applications on the same webpage. However, it is still clear that Yangguan Road and the wooden bridge still have to go separately. Of course, this does not meet the expectations of Shanyou. Everyone wants a one-stop application that can go all the way. Through the open government contact mechanism, PDIS cooperated with relevant authorities to open a one-stop service for creating mountaineering online applications. Project. 

## Must race against time 

First challenge, like the disaster prevention information system or vegetable price information system that PDIS has worked on, the one-stop service system for mountaineering cannot start a new stove and must change clothes, regardless of whether It is an application for admission to the three national parks, an application for entry to the mountains of the Police Department, and even an application for the mountain house of the Forestry Bureau. They must provide services 24 hours a day, without interruption. Moreover, if a new road is opened, unless the original website is closed, It is difficult to change the original user from abandoning the old one, and such a "shock therapy" will not be the first choice for service design. Therefore, PDIS still adopts the approach of ["consistent front desk and integrated back office" in the previous projects](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-TW/project/emic/). 
However, unlike the previous "Information" system projects, the mountaineering application system is not a one-way interception of information release, but must be able to accept the people's application for landing and respond in both directions. It is conceivable how technically, the existing system and one-stop platform interface; on the administrative side, from the completion of the procurement process to the consistency of the application rules, there are all kinds of incurable diseases, which require three competent authorities to step out The same dance steps. PDIS therefore convened a series of meetings, and invited the relevant administrative and information personnel (vendors) to discuss together, including the Tang Feng administrative committee member who also personally collaborated with you at multiple technical meetings. 
In September, the Executive Yuan fully launched the policy inventory of open forests, and the one-stop service website was also included as a part of specific policy measures, so there is even more pressure to delay time: the new system will be available online on November 1 service. This means that in less than a month, a new front-end and back-end service interface will be produced, and a closed user test will be conducted. Then, a "public test" will be launched. There is probably nothing more to call the development of government information systems. Quick deployment. " 

## Seeking better but imperfect 

For PDIS, open government is still the core idea that runs through the entire project, which means that user-centeredness is the only thing here, except for collaborations The meeting allowed multi-stakeholders to focus on issues, and service design optimization must also be accompanied by every step of system development. In particular, the new and old systems coexist after the launch, and the user experience must be at least equal or better. Otherwise, the new system will inevitably be left unattended. Originally, the application rules of the three sets of individual systems were overlapping or inconsistent. The formula becomes the same path, the defects are immediately enlarged, and the user's expectations for the simplification of the program will increase. 
However, several main government agencies are promoting the policy of opening up the forest and forestry. The business burden is already extremely heavy, and it is difficult to take care of it. Due to the fate, PDIS has carried out the "Young Student Physical Examination Government Website Service Project" for the third year (RAY 3.0), the theme is exactly the optimization of government website service design. RAY's team, under the leadership of PDIS designers, has joined the ranks of mountaineering one-stop service transformation. 
But don't get me wrong. Although this project combines the experience and resources accumulated by PDIS in recent years, and is the integration and advanced of the existing mountaineering application system, it will not be, and PDIS does not intend to treat it as the ultimate perfect solution, regardless of the possibility of future improvement. Sexuality, or non-governmental participation and adaptation, are open-minded, so from the beginning, they must meet the ["Common Application Interface Specification" of the National Development Commission](https://theme.ndc.gov.tw/lawout/LawContent.aspx?id=GL000270). In other words, the end of this project does not represent the end of the transformation of the mountaineering application service system, but the beginning of forward and outward extension. 

## Three big lies in the mountaineering world 

Want to know how this project came to pass, although PDIS adheres to the principle of open government transparency, it must leave records on the Internet and make it public, but latecomers must hope that those who actually pass by can Combining personal observations and feelings, share some "footnotes." The two soul figures involved in this project, Zhuang Binglun, an information engineer, and Zhang Haoting, a service designer, wrote different first-hand observations and wonderful "hiking notes" from different perspectives. 
There are three big lies in the mountaineering industry. Before the departure, I told you "it's very simple", I always said "coming soon" along the way, and claimed that I would never come again! From the start to the end of this project, at least the first two lies should be the driving force to support all participating working partners and their PDIS colleagues. 
As for coming again? In this project, the PDIS and the mountaineering authority can be said to have performed the ["Government Digital Service Guidelines"](https://www.ndc.gov.tw/Content_List.aspx?n=E7F6C261A5F5D9F5) issued by the National Development Commission, naturally looking forward to As a leading case, there is a practical reference example when some people face multiple problems such as the cross-organization of government digital services and cross-authority, the coexistence of new and old systems, the need for integration, and the limited resources that require the introduction of civil collaboration. Therefore, like all mountain friends, vowing "never again" is a lie after all, always under the temptation of invincible beauty and moving achievements, carrying a backpack and starting the next journey.