---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: Water country is infinite, with more people and more"
  excerpt: "As long as everyone works together, every language in Taiwan in the future is the \"common voice\" of everyone."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/e/ebf0c4a4e08f1c27cb0622ab416e3fbb77138b75.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


Genius is just bright, the children are already sitting in the classroom, following the teacher on the screen, and reading their native language. 

 This is the scene of the original ["Aboriginal Society Live Broadcasting System Project" (https://www.facebook.com/mismarteducation/)". Every morning when the self-study time arrives, the language teacher will be in front of the green screen to teach the children on the other side of Taiwan. One of the studios is located at the Air Total Social Innovation Experimental Center. 

🌏 Taiwan is an island on the Pacific Ocean. As far as the indigenous people are concerned, there are 16 ethnic languages ​​and 42 dialects. However, these languages ​​face serious dilemmas, including Minnan, Saisiya, Sakiraya, Karma, Shao, La Aluwa, Kanakana, Maolin Rukai, Ten kinds of Wanshan Rukai and Donnarukai are listed as endangered languages ​​by the United Nations and the indigenous people. 

🏡 The language teaching from the next generation is the only way for language rehabilitation. Therefore, when I saw that the studio of the Social Innovation Center had this function, in addition to being happy, I began to think: What else can we contribute besides the live broadcast? 

💬 [Mozilla](https://www.mozilla.org/foundation/) (common voice) (https://voice.mozilla.org) developed by this social enterprise ( with the sound plan), let me see another possibility. 

 This program improves the existing AI speech recognition system through mass participation. The existing mobile phone voice assistant makes people's life more convenient, but voice recognition requires a large amount of voice data, and the machine can learn deeply, and it is very expensive to build a computing system or a voice database. Therefore, the current speech recognition technology still focuses on the mainstream language, resulting in the use of a small number of languages ​​is getting lower and lower, which is not conducive to language rehabilitation. 

 So, Mozilla came up with the Common Voice project, from the collection process to the archives, using the CC0 license to open and completely abandon the copyright. Just read the text of the website and record your own voice, you can collect the voice of different languages, accents, gender, age, and build a world's largest open source voice database. 

Our Our Basic Law on the Aboriginal People, the Hakka Basic Law, or the National Language Development Law under review emphasizes that anyone should have the opportunity to learn the language of the ethnic group on an equal footing. Therefore, in the future, we will work with Common Voice to combine the existing resources of the government to collect a few languages ​​in Taiwan, such as the aboriginal ethnic languages, or the accents of the intrinsic ethnic language. As a result, related language textbooks will be more complete. 

 For many years, I have participated in the "[萌典](https://moedict.tw)" project in the g0v community to build an online dictionary that integrates Taiwan's multilingualism. I believe that the spirit of Common Voice and Meng Dian is the spirit of "cultural affirmation" through digital tools and open materials. 

As long as everyone works together, every language in Taiwan in the future is the "common voice" of everyone. 
