---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week Column: Democratic Innovation, Open Source Sustainability"
  excerpt: "\"Taiwan can help\" is not just a slogan on a T-shirt."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/c/c2fc370f07085dd84216a64f6fc6f7aa11d19dd5.JPG"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 Recently, I have been smashing shirts with more and more friends. This is not because we buy clothes at the same store, but the result of openness. Colleagues use open source materials to create a unique T-shirt with the words "Permanent Development Goals" (https://www.globalgoals.org/) "17 Color Circles" and "Taiwan Can Help". The image file [all public](https://pdis.github.io/taiwan-can-help/), everyone can print one. 

 At the beginning of November, I went to Canada with my office colleagues and combined with the local citizen technology community to run a [workshop] in Toronto (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Y0hVtIAsoIvwfBM1-BjVvCoUtpLzdZc1gdr1vouCLLY/ Edit?fbclid=IwAR2H6hGpJVSnOIzRmAZqyEblU-AJwermB7-rIj6wSQ_xGt7TnYh-8maP2_w), discuss the topic of "platform economy" with civil servants, people and NGOs at all levels. 

🍁 In the workshop, we shared our experience on the economic issues of “vTaiwan” processing platform. "vTaiwan" is a project conceived by the "zero-time government" ([`g0v.tw`](https://g0v.tw/)) community in taiwan. through the collaboration between the private and the government, it collects relevant ministries and service providers. the feelings of stakeholders such as platform operators and users are finally summarized. the friends of the local citizen technology community were amazing, and immediately [started planning](https://twitter.com/alexbenay/status/1061956425306513408) "canadian zero time government" (`g0v.ca`) practice. 

 In Europe on the other side of the Atlantic, there has been the “Italian Zero Time Government” (`g0v.it`). In June of this year, the joint cabinet of Italy, for the first time, appeared the minister responsible for "direct democracy." How civil society works with the government has become a top priority for the Italian community. The establishment of `g0v.it` was inspired by Taiwanese experience. 

 When I was invited to the Vatican in March this year, I introduced `g0v` "Don't ask why no one is doing this, first admit that he is "no one"." One of the listeners, the Italian congressman who invited me to the Holy See, Stefano Quintarelli, listened to Taiwan with his like-minded friends and finally chose to introduce `g0v` the first project "Budget Visualization". 

🔄 Italian friends believe that the presentation of this project is very intuitive, helping the public understand the budget allocation and expand the discussion space. Therefore, they used the original project's open source material to describe the budget usage of the Italian government. Just click on the URL "[`g0v.it`](https://budget.g0v.it/)" and you are free to take it. use. 

The experience of Canada and Italy reminds me of my friends who met in the Vatican, Jeffrey Sachs, a Columbia University professor who is responsible for designing the Sustainable Development Goals. At the opening event of `g0v.it`, he said: `g0v` did things that made the discussion of the matter become "interesting" again. This is the public construction that global democracy now needs most. 

🌏 I agree with Sachs: The more people can participate in the contribution, the more opportunities there are to reimagine and build a new democratic look. The comprehensive open source of g0v is not only social innovation but also democratic innovation. "Taiwan can help" is not just a slogan on a T-shirt. 
