---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: Dancing with unmanned vehicles"
  excerpt: "When I saw people struggling to go to the parking lot with a pot, or when they were parked with a big sun, I was always thinking: Is there any more convenient possibility?"
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/f/f6d7a369567dd01fa82c40d4de1b219b8d0b0c43.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


At the weekend, I really like to visit Jianguo Flower Market near the residence. When I saw people struggling to go to the parking lot with a pot, or when they were parked with a big sun, I was always thinking: Is there any more convenient possibility? 

🚦 The large number of steam locomotives in Taiwan is no longer news. According to the statistics of the Environmental Protection Agency, there are more than 13 million locomotives in Taiwan, with an average of 380 vehicles per square kilometer, ranking the highest in Asia. Even cars have nearly 8 million vehicles. 

💡 Such a high-density vehicle has a significant impact on the air quality and traffic safety of the Taiwanese region. How can such problems be improved? Unmanned vehicles are a possible direction. 

 Before I entered the cabinet in 2016, I discussed the development of unmanned vehicles in Paris and friends at the MIT Media Lab. After entering the cabinet, I also suggested that they use the Air China Social Innovation Center as a venue for hackathon, so that the "Smart Tricycle" has the opportunity to interact with the general public. 

 What is special about the smart tricycle? Through open source and open materials, it enables Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Collective Intelligence (CI) to strengthen each other and explore new ways of interaction. 

 Currently, many people still have doubts about unmanned vehicles. In my opinion, they are actually like new species. Now we drive, by lighting the number and driving, to observe the intention of the next car. Unmanned vehicles can receive nearby signals through the Internet of Vehicles, allowing them to use the road more intelligently. The sensors on the vehicle can also collect traffic conditions in the vicinity. In addition to self-study, it can help the whole city to understand itself better. 

 Humans are inevitably challenged by such new species in the process of learning to coexist. Being able to have an experimental site, let the unmanned vehicles test and simulate the actual situation inside, is the most important thing at this stage. I once went to the GoMentum test site in California to see the unmanned car in the venue. It felt like I was surrounded by animals and could interact with people to find out the possibility of future operations. 

 Therefore, I have been looking forward to the Tainan Shalun Science City, which has already started. In the 2.2-hectare Tainan Sharon Science City, in addition to the special test field, the vehicle's actions can also be observed from the control center. Imagine: After entering Sharon Science City, the passing cars, even from the entrance of the park, are all unmanned vehicles, and the entire Science City can become a vehicle experience field. 

From the carriage to the car, every evolution of the vehicle has reshaped our society. By the time that artificial intelligence becomes a part of the city, our daily lives will change. For example, after visiting the Jianguo Flower Market, press a button, "Smart Tricycle" can help bring the pot home, I look forward to this day. 
