---
  layout: "post"
  title: "The era of mutual dependence"
  excerpt: "If the digital age is a mountain, humanity is still at the foot of the mountain. The peak is still untouched, and the outlook after the summit is still unknown."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/b/bdb25714dbd3e9287ba64f5bea7ae75b3385edbf.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、Nissaba"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


This summary was written by Nissaba. Nissaba is a newly created program designed to provide concise, readable, actionable news and analysis for digital policy development around the world. If you find this document useful and would like to see more information of the same quality, you may wish to consider assisting us in maintaining the project operation: https://www.nissaba.net

[English](http:// nissaba.net/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/hlpdc-report.pdf) Issued on June 11, 2019 
* Chinese translation was released under the authority of **Tang Feng** CC BY-NC-SA 4.0. 

## Introduction

The United Nations High-Level Digital Cooperation Expert Group Meeting released a 47-page report on the June 10th. The following is a very brief summary that hopes to help valuable readers understand the main points of the report. The full report of the high-level digital cooperation expert group meeting of the UN Secretary-General "The era of digital interdependence" can be obtained [on this website](https://digitalcooperation.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/digitalcooperation-report-for -web.pdf). 

 The preface of the report explains the background of the group meeting and the report: 
* Digital technology is changing every aspect of our lives and is everywhere. 
* While digital technology has improved our lives in many ways, it has also brought enormous risks. 
* The team began to study how the digital technology can help achieve the 17 goals of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. 
* About half of the world's population is unable to connect to the Internet. 
* The speed of digital development has been getting faster and faster. 
* We need to take action now to find better ways to run digital governance. 
* Digital governance can benefit from the benefits of multilateral processes and multi-stakeholder processes. 

## The Declaration of Digital Reciprocity

This report invites all stakeholders to join the “Declaration of Digital Reciprocity”: If the digital age is a mountain, human beings are still at the foot of the mountain. 

The peak is still untouched, and the outlook after the summit is still unknown. But now if you lose your foothold, you will obviously face these risks: dangerous adventurism between countries, exploitation of enterprises, statutory restrictions on stifling innovation and trade, and the great possibility of failing to promote human development - we Never accept this situation. 

How we manage opportunities and risks of rapid technological change will profoundly impact our future and the future of the planet. 

We believe that our ideals and vulnerabilities are interrelated and interdependent. No individual, institution, company or government can or should manage digital development alone; we also believe that we must work hard to resolve differences to shape We share the digital future. 

We are committed to working together in new ways based on our shared values to achieve the vision of the future of humanity, that is, using affordable, accessible digital technologies to promote economic growth and social opportunities, reducing inequality Strengthen peace and security, promote sustainable development of the environment, protect the human subjective power, improve human rights, and meet human needs. 

## Possible Digital Cooperative Architecture

The group introduced three architectures that may contribute to the current digital collaboration discussion:

### 1. Internet Governance Forum Plus
* Committed to policies and practices that are directly relevant to the stakeholder community. 
* will be set up: Advisory Group, Cooperative Acceleration Center, Policy Breeding Center, Observatory, Service Window. 
* A dedicated IGF trust fund will be established. 

### 2. Decentralized Common Governance Framework (“COGOV”)
* builds on existing mechanisms and uses self-organizing “horizontal” networking methods (eg IETF, ICANN) to fill and new mechanisms The difference between the two. 
* Detach the design of the digital specification from its implementation and execution. 
* Three functional elements: digital cooperative network, network support platform, and network between networks. 

### 3. Digital Commons Framework 
* Governments, civil society and businesses work together to ensure that digital technologies can advance the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. 
* Multi-stakeholders will discuss emerging issues and then meet annually. 

## Core Values

The team confirmed the nine values that must lead the development of digital cooperation:

1. Inclusive
2. Respect
3. People-oriented
4. Human prosperity
 5. Transparency
6. Cooperation
7. Usable
8. Sustainable development
9. Harmony

## Suggestion

### 1. Create a multi-party inclusive digital economy| |* By 2030, we will provide affordable digital Internet, digital financial services and medical services to every adult. 
* Create a platform for sharing “digital public finances” through a broad multi-stakeholder alliance with United Nations involvement to attract talent and bring together information on areas related to the Sustainable Development Goals. 
* Supports comprehensive digital inclusion of women and marginalized groups; international institutions focus on women and digital inclusive technology research. 
* Develop digital inclusive indicators, including sex-disaggregated data for global use and returns. 

### 2. Strengthening the capabilities of people and institutions
Building regional and global digital service windows to help governments, civil society and the private sector understand digital issues and build capacity to guide social influence. 

### 3. Protecting human rights and human subject motivation
* Under the leadership of the UN Secretary-General, reviewing how existing international human rights agreements and standards within United Nations agencies apply to digital technologies. All stakeholders should be encouraged to provide input. 
* Social media companies consult with governments, civil society and human rights experts to respond to concerns about existing or potential human rights violations around the world. 
* Invite multi-stakeholder participation to develop ethical standards for the design and application of accountability and unbiased AI systems. 

### 4. Ensuring digital trust, digital security, and digital stability 
 Develop a global commitment to digital trust and digital security to create a shared vision, set a digitally stable symbol, and regulate how to use it responsibly Technology and put forward priorities for action. 

### 5. Updating the Global Digital Cooperation Mechanism
* The UN Secretary General should host an open consultation process with three architectural options (described briefly above) as the starting point for establishing the latest global digital cooperation: Internet Road Governance Forum Plus, decentralized common governance structure, digital public land structure. 
* It may be necessary to appoint a technical envoy. 
* Support a new, multi-stakeholder "system" approach to achieving highly adaptable, agile, inclusive, and purposeful regulation. 
