---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: Why is winter warm and five neighbors"
  excerpt: "If all goes well, Taiwan NAB has the opportunity to become the fourth member of GSG in Asia at the end of this year."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/optimized/2X/0/0eb95b1632fcac7b85a35f55c75fabbfa5a9f585_1_666x500.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 At the end of the year, I attended a very special gathering at the Social Innovation Center: "Taiwan GSG NAB is preparing for warm-up gathering." 

🇬🇧 Ordinary people may not know, what does GSG and NAB stand for? The GSG's full name, "Global Impact Investment Steering Committee," was launched by Sir Ronald Cohen of the United Kingdom in the G8, dedicated to connecting financial, commercial and public welfare communities. Since 2015, the National Advisory Board (NAB) has been established in 21 countries. 

 Why is it called "warm body"? Chen Yiqiang (Ray), the general manager of the Living Water Enterprise Investment Development Company, which contributed to the gathering, has exchanged with GSG several times to study the possibility of establishing NAB in Taiwan. In February 2018, Professor Feng Yan from the Department of Social Work of National Taiwan University, Chairman of the B-type Enterprise Association, and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Ray and others were invited to Seoul to participate in the GSG, British Council, and UNESCAP. The Asia Pacific Impact Investment Workshop, co-organized for the first time. 

💡 The two-day agenda was kicked off by the inauguration ceremony of NAB Korea. With the help of Ray, I participated in the discussion of NAB representatives in various ways, and I have a better understanding of GSG. Originally, GSG hopes to promote “influenced investment”, thereby driving the capital market to achieve sustainable development, which will lead to social innovation and entrepreneurship. 

📈 GSG believes that social and environmental challenges often come from the consequences of unfavorable sustainable development in the pursuit of short-term profitability. In addition to the practice of avoiding harm and promoting corporate social responsibility such as public welfare, “Influence Investment” hopes to go further and encourage innovative teams committed to propose solutions, scale up mature solutions and build credibility to solve global problems. problem. 

👪 GSG emphasizes that the social innovation ecosystem has five cornerstones: “funding, capital needs, intermediary organizations, regulations and policies, and ecological construction”. Many friends in Taiwan have been working hard in these five fields and have sufficient conditions to establish NAB. The enthusiasm of everyone is reflected in this warm-up gathering - just the financial industry and investment funds, there are more than a dozen representatives attending. If all goes well, Taiwan NAB has the opportunity to become the fourth member of GSG in Asia at the end of this year. 

🙏 In the past year's column, I shared with you [[Social Enterprise](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91 %a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e7%82%ba%e6%9c%89%e6%84%9b%e7%9a%84%e4%ba%ba-%e8%a7 %a3%e6%b1%ba%e5%9b%b0%e9%9b%a3/),[local creation](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5% 95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e4%b8%8d%e8%a6%81%e8%87%89%e5%85%ac%e5%9c %92-%e7%9a%84%e8%83%8c%e5%be%8c/), [land rehabilitation](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5 %95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e4%bd%bf%e5%91%bd%e7%84%a1%e5%83%b9-%e5 %95%86%e6%a9%9f%e7%84%a1%e9%99%90/),[continue to eat together](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/ %e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e7%a4%be%e6%9c%83%e5%89%b5%e6%96%b0- %e5%b8%b6%e5%8b%95%e6%b3%95%e8%a6%8f%e5%89%b5%e6%96%b0/),[circular economy](https://pdis. nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e5%9c%a8%e5%9c%b0% e5%a4%a5%e4%bc%b4-%e5%85%b1%e5%89%b5%e4%ba%9e%e6%b4%b2%e6%9c%aa%e4%be%86/) [original culture](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b 0%88%e6%ac%84-%e6%9c%a8%e9%b1%89%e8%91%89%e7%9a%84%e5%95%9f%e7%a4%ba/),[wisdom pipeline](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-ai-% e8%88%87%e8%80%81%e5%b8%ab%e5%82%85/),[nobody vehicles](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/ %e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e8%88%87%e7%84%a1%e4%ba%ba%e8%bb%8a% e5%85%b1%e8%88%9e/), [citizen technology](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91%a8% e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e6%b0%91%e4%b8%bb%e5%be%9e%e8%aa%b0%e5%be%97%e6%8c%87%e5 %8d%97/), [program education](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6 %ac%84-%e6%99%82%e9%9b%a8%e4%b8%8d%e5%85%88-%e9%81%a9%e7%95%b6%e5%85%b6%e6 %99%82/), [human machine interaction](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88% e6%ac%84-%e6%b0%b4%e5%9c%8b%e7%84%a1%e9%82%8a%e9%9a%9b-%e5%90%8c%e8%81%b2% e5%92%8c%e8%80%85%e5%a4%9a/),[democratic innovation](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86% e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88%e6%ac%84-%e6%b0%91%e4%b8%bb%e5%89%b5%e6%96%b0-%e9%96%8b% e6%ba%90%e6%b twelve stories of 0%b8%e7%ba%8c/)". In the new year, I hope that more friends can support Taiwan's warmth and establish a closer partnership with the global sustainable community. 
