---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple column: This picture is beautiful"
  excerpt: "The \"out-of-the-road team\" transforms Taiwan's world-class experience in tranquil care into a \"mobile smart care support platform\" that allows patients and their families to use their mobile phones or computers at home."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/8/8b31e4edccedc00fbee350ae02a52ffcf96fce55.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


 In June of this year, Netizen Elsie participated in the platform of the public policy network to participate in the platform proposal "Veterinarians can legally use human medicine to treat animals, and animal medical care should be controlled by veterinarians." The vote was passed and became the theme of the 53rd Collaborative Conference. On August 16th, a collaborative meeting was held by online live broadcast. 

🤝 The initial consensus reached by the parties at the meeting, the organizer's Agriculture Committee and Weifu Department will publicly respond to the platform on October 20th. As far as the facts are clarified, the parties have achieved considerable results at the conference through a series of interviews. Here, they share with readers:

⚖️ First, "Human drugs are used for dogs and cats and non-economic animals. The Management Regulations (Draft) did not touch the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law. In the briefing of the day, the IPCC clearly stated that "in accordance with Article 4, Item 3 of the Animal Protection Law, the "Administrative Measures" are also regulated, which also regulates trafficking and circulation"; the Food and Drug Administration also pointed out in the briefing, " Article 4, Items 2 and 3 of the Animal Protection Law, the scope of management of human-medicated drugs for treatment of animals, the Committee of Agriculture has included circulation, trafficking, etc. The norms of circulation and sale should be given priority to animal protection. law". Second, the 597 kinds of announced drugs that can be transferred to animals are not affected by the Good Manufacturing Practices (PIC/S GDP) and the source is flawless. On May 21 this year, the Food and Drug Administration explained to the pharmacies, pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical marketing agencies and other guilds that in order to protect the rights and interests of animal health before the implementation of the Administrative Measures, it is in compliance with Article 4, Item 2 of the Animal Protection Law. The type of drug that can be transferred to animals for use is still available to veterinarians (salists) for use in therapeutic animals. 

 In addition, in order to strengthen the message delivery, this collaborative meeting also has new attempts in the arrangement of attendees. In addition to the sponsors, the second parties, the relevant ministries, the representatives of the pharmacists and veterinary guilds, and the experts and scholars, we also invite the administrators and batches of Facebook’s “Cats and Madness Club”. The moderator of the kick-off industrial workshop (PTT) "cat version" was present to participate in the discussion. 

 Finally, during the collaboration meeting, the "Korea Educational Broadcasting System (EBS)" came to Taiwan to shoot on the theme of opening up government and social innovation, so in addition to the full live webcast In addition, the discussion period is also open for EBS team side shoots and interviews. 

 On the same day, the producer of the EBS team told me many times: "This kind of picture is very beautiful."

 I also hope that all the participants, except the information obtained from the meeting, will be returned to their respective Outside the community, it is more able to bring the feelings of the day into more subsequent discussions. 
