---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: From \"warm strength\" to \"influence\""
  excerpt: "We will use the spirit of \"influence assessment\" to achieve the \"Open Government Action Plan\" through civic collaboration, so that the world can see how the \"warm strength\" of Taiwan's democracy can be transformed into the global \"influence\"."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/3/32c68698d6b30829ea114ec939c478d0657b2ad2.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 In the business world, whether to invest in a product or service, return on investment (ROI) is often an important reference indicator. Through the calculation of the financial formula, profit and loss balance and profit can be seen at a glance. 

 However, such an approach is difficult to apply directly to actions of public interest. For example, the three-wheeled self-driving car I have introduced, or the "voting guide" website, the public interest brought by these innovations is often difficult to become a specific figure in the introduction of financial statements. How can we prove that these results are effective? This is an important topic in the field of social innovation. 

 With the increasing demand for such an increase, many "impact assessment" methods have emerged. For example, the Social Reporting Standard (SRS) established by the European Social Reporting Initiative (SRI). SRS uses IOOI (input → output → outcome → impact) as the framework to fully present the organizational vision, related actions and subsequent impacts. 

 ” The Social Return on Investment (SROI), which is similar to the reporting rate, combines social benefits and economic models. For example, if the calculation result is 4.5, it means that for every dollar invested, you can create a social value of 4.5 yuan. 

💁 These new assessment methods allow the public sector's public welfare output to be like the calculation of the reporting rate, so that all the people who act on it know what they are doing and how much they bring to society and the environment. benefit. 

 Many projects in the public sector have had an influential impact on society. Therefore, the "impact assessment" has also received extensive attention from governments and has become a tool for decision-making. In the case of "open government," it has become the policy policy of all countries in the world because it has tied the 16th UN Sustainable Development Goals. Whether it's cross-departmental data usage or collaboration with citizen communities, there is a need for globally ubiquitous assessment metrics that allow communities and governments to move forward and move forward. 

🌎 I am currently in Canada to participate in the Open Government Partnership (OGP) Summit. This year, Taiwan is not only invited to share the experience of the "Presidential Cup hackathon", but will also assist the participating citizens' scientific community and representatives of governments to produce a mutually recognized and cross-referenced evaluation model, so that the effect of "openness" is no longer only information. The number of episodes is more practical to measure the impact on people's lives. 

💞 Taiwan has one of the most active open communities in the world. On the basis of this, we will use the spirit of "influence assessment" to achieve the "Opening Government National Action Plan" through civic collaboration, so that the world can see how the "warm strength" of Taiwan's democracy can be transformed into global influence. "." 
