---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Strong democracy, digital country"
  excerpt: "In Taiwan, an online platform based on artificial intelligence effectively prevents network whitening and gives citizens the opportunity to express their opinions."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/b/bd32d0cabad24eee28e50b57c48e6df591c5597d.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---

🗺 Democracy will improve as more and more people participate. As long as everyone is concerned about seeking consensus rather than differentiation, digital technology is still one of the best ways to increase participation. 

🎨 Taiwan has been committed to implementing this concept in recent years. Therefore, the government and the scientific and technological community have cooperated to establish an online platform and related digital measures to allow citizens to make recommendations for policy reform. Now, Taiwan is practicing democracy through "outsourcing" and building a more responsive government. 

 This effort to improve the transparency of the government stems from the moment when the Taiwanese people were angry with the government for lack of openness and political responsibility. 

 On March 18th, 2014, young social activists with hundreds of college students as the main body rushed into the Legislative Yuan to occupy the forum. Because the government was considering signing a "Service Agreement" with Beijing's many doubts at the time, and on March 17, the ruling Kuomintang legislators announced the passage of the Service Agreement in just 30 seconds in the disputed standing committee. Let civil society be at a loss. 

 The protesters’ appeal is to “reject the black box and return to the service” and ask the government to establish a more transparent bill review process. The 22-day occupation campaign ended after the government promised to strengthen legislative oversight of trade agreements. (The agreement has not been approved by the legislature so far.) However, the polls after the occupation showed that 76% of the people are still dissatisfied with the government, which shows the crisis of trust caused by the service. 

| To compensate for this rift, the government at the time began to contact the citizen technology community g0v (zero-hour government), a group of civic-minded hackers who have been trying to improve government transparency through various open source initiatives. In the 318 campaign, g0v also actively participated in the occupation site to assist in the transparent convergence of information. The actions of these citizen hackers have drawn the attention of the government. 

| In December 2014, Cai Yuling, then the Administrative Council Member of the Executive Yuan, proposed the hackathon of the government at g0v, hoping to establish a neutral third-party platform, so that the government can timely Various online community friends exchanged views and formed a consensus. 

🍲 A number of contributors from the g0v government at zero time collaborated with the Executive Yuan in 2015 on the vTaiwan platform. This community-run project aims to effectively bring together stakeholders from government, economic and social sectors to discuss policies related to the digital economy. Although the government has not responded to vTaiwan's proposed obligations (this may change), the results of vTaiwan's work can often be translated into specific government actions. Currently vTaiwan has processed 30 topics. 

 The interactive digital tool “Pol.is” is often used during vTaiwan's discussion to ensure that policy discussions among multiple stakeholders are rational and consistent. With Pol.is, any vTaiwan participant can post comments about the policy topic being discussed. The important thing is that other users can't respond directly to these comments, just click "Agree", "Disagree" or "Skip/Unsure" on each comment instead of provoking and defamatory. 

💡 Pol.is analyzes these opinions through instant machine learning and produces an interactive chart that groups the same participants in the same block and separates them from other users with different ideas. . In this way, each participant can see their position on the spectrum of opinion and the gap with each group, and then start thinking about how to find the intersection of each other's opinions. In an ideal situation, this will attract more people to express their opinions and join the discussion, creating a path for consensus. 

📶 vTaiwan is often used to solve some particularly difficult digital policy issues. For example, in 2015, Uber triggered strong opposition from taxi drivers who helped to resolve how Uber's discussion was deadlocked; over the years, online wine sales have been deadlocked between companies and social groups, and in 2016, hundreds of people used it. The public of the platform proposed new regulations for online liquor sales within a few weeks; in 2018, vTaiwan assisted in the formulation of new regulations for the platform economy, as a platform for collecting opinions during the legislative process of the financial sandbox regulations. 

🔄 Taiwan has another citizen participation platform called Join. Compared to vTaiwan, the Join platform is fully maintained by the government and has a wider range of issues, such as empty house taxes and animal drug management. Compared to hundreds of thousands of people who have discussed issues on vTaiwan, Join's website has had 10.6 million visitors since its launch in 2015—almost half of Taiwan's population. 

🤝 vTaiwan and Join have opened up a more direct communication channel between the Taiwanese government and citizens, and the government has benefited a lot. Because civil servants not only have access to new ideas and ways of thinking, but also the core of public service needs through the opinions of the public. 

🏆 The President’s Cup hackathon is another digital technology initiative. Since last year, the President has personally participated in this activity, gathering the public service department and citizen friends every year, working together in the hackathon to optimize and think of useful government services. The winning team won't get the bonus, but the promise that the government will actually adopt these good ideas. 

 This year's President's Cup hackathon, one of the five outstanding teams, is composed of civil servants and information specialists from the Information Division of the Court, proposing "referee reading" and "sentencing reference helper" Two ideas are designed to make the judicial system clearer and more transparent. 

 In Taiwan, the issue of drinking and driving has received widespread attention. In recent years, the results of many drunk driving accidents have caused public opinion to boil. People often don't understand why "just judge this?"

 In the face of public confusion, the court team developed a "sentencing information helper" to let the people Understand why the punishment for the same crime will be different. Take the example of "cannot drive safely" caused by drunk driving. They first find out more than 50,000 related referee books from the existing referee database, and then sort out the conditions for this crime, and then set these conditions on sentencing. Information system. 

📲 Anyone who is curious about the judgment, as long as you enter relevant data such as "alcohol breath concentration" and "vehicle type" on this system, you can not only see the appropriate punishment for the case proposal, but also A similar case judgment can be seen. Such an approach would make the public more aware that a single change in alcohol concentration could lead to a very different judgment. 

🌏 "Dare to do it, don't be afraid to make mistakes." In the closing speech of the President's Cup hackathon this year, President Tsai Ing-wen encouraged civil servants with hacker spirit. In Taiwan, digital technology is actively promoting citizen dialogue and injecting a spirit of social innovation into the government. By "letting everyone speak", Taiwan is strengthening democracy for the future of the world. 
