---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple column: talent is not lost, but circulation"
  excerpt: "Taiwan is the \"best place to move and work\" in the minds of foreigners in other countries."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/d/d2d9c7bf3088d67c5150e2e658a5dcae2f3a6e66.png"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 In April of this year, the Talent Circulation Alliance (TCA), jointly sponsored by the American Association of Taiwanese (AIT), the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, was formally established. 

💡 My office (Public Digital Innovation Space, PDIS) was also invited to provide technical services for online public consultation conducted by TCA. In contrast to the "Smart"-Digital Dialogue series jointly organized by AIT and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the dialogue platform is constructed through the pol.is system (website: [tca.talksto.tw](https://tca.talkto.tw)) Participants who are interested in this topic can express their opinions and brainstorm ideas. 

🔄 Brain drain is considered a serious national issue by many people. However, taking Zhang Zhongmou, the founder of TSMC, as an example, we can find that as long as there is a good environment and system, talents will not only flow in one direction, but in circulation. At the same time, the experience sharing, cultural integration and social interactions promoted in the process of transnational mobility have made the value of talent circulation overflow to different levels of society. Of course, the application and popularization of communication technologies such as 4G and 5G also make remote work in the ascendant. It is easier and more immediate to make talent convection. 

🍀 TCA aims to cultivate a group of professionals with professional competence, international vision and proficient in digital technology. Four goals are proposed:

🔭 First, the success story of Taiwanese industry in digital age. In fact, Taiwan’s industry has grown to the present, and it has been a key to returning to China for overseas students who have studied or employed overseas. As long as such a story can continue to be staged, it will ensure that the talent cycle in Taiwan will not be interrupted. 

 Second, to promote the flow of talent between Taiwan and the United States, as well as other economies with similar concepts. 

 Third, the talent pool is built on the ground, laying the foundation for Taiwan's transformation into the innovation economy. 

 Fourth, enhance Taiwan's international visibility through networks such as the private sector, academic circles and international NGOs, while expanding Taiwan's participation and contribution to solving global problems. In addition, TCA will summarize the key content of the above public consultation into the White Paper of the Talent Circle Major Alliance Program and become the annual "Taiwan White Paper" of the American Chamber of Commerce. As part of the administrative, regulatory and legal barriers that may be faced in promoting talent circulation, specific and pragmatic solutions are proposed as a reference for subsequent government improvement. 

 In September this year, the "Expat Insider" survey released by the world's largest non-resident community "InterNations" pointed out that Taiwan is the "best of the world". The emigration and workplace, which is the leader in 68 countries, is the second time to win this award. This means that Taiwan does have excellent conditions for attracting talents from all over the world and can definitely gain a place in the global talent cycle. 
