---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: A sustainable fashion tour of a village"
  excerpt: "This year, the team of Cigondewah was unanimously recognized by experts from Japan, Singapore, Australia, Thailand, India and other countries and was awarded the \"Special Jury Prize\". They will come to the awards at the Asia-Pacific Social Enterprise Summit in May this year."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/7/718c3380c9efb619b63f7f850fb2a1ed368a5c81.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


💎 Have you ever thought that the jewelry we wear can be made from environmental waste? 

🇮🇩 A while ago, I got to know a very interesting project - [Fashion Village Lab](https://issuu.com/sl_studio/docs/fashion_village_lab_roadmap) in Cigondewah, Indonesia . 

 This year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in order to promote regional sustainable development, handled the first "[Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award](https://apses.asia/award/apply)" and received as many as 13 countries and 60 In the case of two teams, the Fashion Village Lab is one of the teams. 

🏭 Indonesia is a big country in the manufacture of garments. Bandung City accounts for 40% of the output value. Cigondewah Village in the city is a distribution center for international brand manufacturing plants. Five years ago, the Bandung Creative Cities Forum (BCCF) and Dutch researchers stationed in the area in view of the fact that the factory's waste pollution affected the quality of life of local workers. 

 After a deeper understanding, they launched the "Fashion Village Lab" in conjunction with local community power. 

 The vision of the laboratory is to create a self-sufficient “circular creative ecosystem”: transforming solid pollutants produced in factories into products such as building blocks and jewellery; and collaborating with students in architecture and design. Construction of shops that show production processes; preservation of land for planting dye plants, development of new materials and experiments on sustainable textiles. 

 The success of the Fashion Village Lab is based on an effective "3C formula" behind it - connecting with local stakeholders, inviting everyone to collaborate (Collaborate), and finally into the business And related people, expand the innovative business model (Commerce). This formula is based on the field work of the Bandung Creative City Forum in the past ten years. It has successfully connected the stakeholders of production, government, study, research and society, and has also made Bandung a UNESCO "Creative City" network. A member of (UCCN). 

 Today, the Fashion Village Lab is in its final stages, and the Kawasan Wisata Sandang Cooperative, which is run by local women and youth, is ready to sell the finished products of the circular economy through the laboratory. 

 This year, the team of Cigondewah was unanimously recognized by experts from Japan, Singapore, Australia, Thailand, India and other countries and was awarded the "Special Jury Prize". They will come to the [Asia Pacific Social Enterprise Summit](https://apses.asia) in May this year to receive the award. Everyone is welcome to come to Kaohsiung to meet these excellent teams and explore new possibilities for local creation. 
