---
  layout: "post"
  title: "The Construction of Empathy and Dialogue Platform from the Collaboration Meeting of the \"Shen Pig Case\""
  excerpt: "The value of collaborative meetings sometimes does not lie in the extent to which public power is involved, but rather serves as a platform for communication between the divergent positions of the people."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/6/6493bf8de04293cc04844bab441007e87becc4bc.jpeg"
  author: "許恩恩"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


 ### 缘起 

 In the middle of August this year, the netizen "Happy Mumu" proposed on the public policy network participation platform "[Termination of God Pig Weight Competition Rite](https://join.gov.tw / idea / detail / 09ae5b7b-b8d9-4c92-bc51-46416f4b2df4) "case, the sponsor pointed out that from breeding to slaughter, the" God Pig "suffered a variety of abuse and pain throughout the breeding process, so I hope this kind of competition The competition can be completely terminated and replaced with other friendly and innovative methods. The case received media attention at the second stage, and it quickly broke through the threshold of 5,000 second cases in early September. 

 The Executive Council's "Open Government Liaison Work Promotion Conference" (referred to as "PO Monthly Meeting") is the main mechanism for deciding what cases to conduct collaborative meetings. When the PO monthly meeting in October was held, the representatives of the agricultural committee and the guest committee, as the organizing agencies, offered to collaborate on this case. The PO (Open Government Liaison) of the Agriculture Commission explained at the time: 

 "The issues involved in this case were issues such as the people's belief culture, animal protection, and so on. The Divine Pig Weight Contest does not agree, but sometimes the law cannot solve the problem of folklore completely. Therefore, we must communicate with the believers, the participating people, and the cultural and historical workers, hoping to reach a consensus on adjusting the practice. " [Verbatim](https://sayit.pdis.nat.gov.tw/2019-10-07-%e9%96%8b%e6%94%be%e6%94%bf%e5%ba%9cpo % e7% ac% ac% e4% b8% 89% e5% 8d% 81% e4% ba% 8c% e6% ac% a1% e6% 9c% 88% e6% 9c% 83 # s332435)) 

 Under the coordination of the National Development Council, the guest committee is considered as a co-hosting agency because it is considered to be related to the culture of the sacred pig competition. The Ministry of the Interior and Culture, which is responsible for religion and folk culture, is the co-organizer. In the case of the issue spanning four ministries, the "God Pig" issue started a two-month preparatory process. Finally, on November 15th, rights and interests and scholars and experts were invited to organize a collaborative meeting. 

 ### Alignment and adjustment of the administrative department 

 This proposal is not a new topic for the administrative department, and all the ministries have dealt with the business related to the God Pig competition. The guest committee, one of the organizers, posted a post on Facebook this year, "Respecting the sacrifice culture and combating animal cruelty." Therefore, in the preparation process, cross-administrative departments quickly aligned their cognition, that is, "not using law to forcibly intervene in religious sacrifice culture" as the basic line, but to gradually promote god pigs by using softer methods such as counseling and reward. The transformation of competition. 

 The authorities agree that it is not appropriate to intervene in religious rituals with public authority. Since the proponents want the government to be more actively involved, it appears that this option has been curtailed in advance. However, various agencies here have clarified the existing relevant measures, especially the Agricultural Committee has written to the local government to strengthen the guidance of the temples, religious groups and pig breeders who still hold the sacred pig rituals in their jurisdiction, and track and manage the feeding Happening. The Hakka Committee drew up the historical context of the Divine Pig Competition and pointed out the connection with the Hakka culture. The Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Interior also publicly expressed their stance on the transformation of rituals. 

 Therefore, from the standpoint of the "God Pig Competition", all agencies are consistent with the goals of the sponsors, that is, to allow the existing form of saint pig sacrifices to be changed to a certain degree. Religious freedom, then discuss how to intervene. The government department also expressed the core value of "respecting folk beliefs" and hoped to discuss on this premise. 

 ### Adopting opinions during the preparatory phase and setting of discussion issues 

 After the basic tone has been established, each department will begin to interview the stakeholders, including the sponsor, the animal protection group, and the sacred pig. Competitions and transformed temples, believers who have participated in the competition of God Pigs, pig farmers of God Pigs, the county ’s and municipal government ’s animal protection authorities and experts and scholars. Since the positions of the administrative departments have reached a consensus and are quite firm, policy communication has been initiated from the preparatory stage, but it is also in the process that it is found that the private parties are paying different attention to their respective positions on the God Pig Competition. Scattered at each end of the spectrum. 

 Firstly, it is difficult to generalize whether the process of raising pigs constitutes an illegal torture of animals. It must be determined based on the facts of the case. The representatives of the Ministry followed the local government ’s animal protection office to visit the actual site of the pig farmers. What they saw was indeed different from the previous situation of the animal protection group's proof, and it also showed the importance of case identification. In addition, the temple believes that the key to changing the competition is the believers. However, the motivation of the competition is often a dynamic process between the believer and the temple, rather than being driven in one direction. It is more influenced by changes in external ideas, policy encouragement and Affected by changes in socio-economic structure. The cultural value and historical context of sacrifice that believers care about are also difficult to measure directly under the same standards as animal welfare. 

 Thus, colleagues from various agencies and the PDIS team decided to set this case as a more inclusive theme: "How to discuss the possibilities of alternative rituals on the premise of the spontaneity of the people?" 

 The actual operation of the meeting In the first half, there were mainly two-stage group discussions. In the first half, "How to encourage believers to choose pigs raised in natural ways to sacrifice God?" To ensure that we did not completely exclude the option of raising pigs, and returned to "How to Encourage believers to use different ways to repay God? "To respond to the proponent's appeal, and stimulate the form of transformation and incentives. 

 ### The diverse composition of the scene brings dynamic tension 

 The seat of the collaboration meeting was broken up at the beginning, so that temple parties, pig farmers, animal protection groups, sponsors, sponsors, experts and scholars And representatives of various ministries and conferences, sitting in different groups. As mentioned earlier, even if the administrative authorities unanimously determined that there would be no compulsory involvement in the sacrificial culture, their position on the competition is actually quite obvious, so the pig farmers at the scene felt "targeted" so that they had not entered the group discussion. Someone wants to leave. 

 In addition to ensuring the friendly atmosphere at the scene, the working team also needs to communicate and persuade outside the meeting area. The team originally thought that the conflict might be imminent. However, after entering the group discussion, a scene representative from the temple successfully transformed the creative scheme from the pig competition, played the role of being able to empathize and identify with the pig farmers in a timely manner. Willing to stay in the seat. 

 An animal protection group with a different stance from pig farmers also realizes that pig farmers and temples from far away are willing to come to Taipei and endure that there may be voices on the scene that are completely opposed to the work on which they depend. It is an invaluable thing. Therefore, even if the position is firm and the arguments are relatively sharp, the animal protection groups are still willing to soften their attitudes in a timely manner and propose where they share common ideas with pig farmers and temples. And the public sector representatives not only explain their positions and existing actions, they can also play a neutral and integrated role, and even further deconstruct the situation on the demand side, and propose alternative possibilities. 

 Relying on the organization's prior communication and the mutual understanding of the invitees, this collaboration meeting, which might have been unhappy for a time, was successfully completed together after several high-level discussions. 

 ### The soul of reviewing and presiding: Public servants PO 

 The preparation process of up to two months before the meeting is the key to the successful completion of this collaborative meeting. In addition to "internal communication", let various agencies establish a consistent benchmark, but more importantly, colleagues of all agencies can use this benchmark to understand all stakeholders and allow people with extremely different positions to listen to each other and sit together at the conference. At last. At the same time, at a more micro level, what is relied on is that the host at the scene treats all participants without discrimination and gathers all opinions fairly and clearly, reminding the meeting to adjust the situation and the issues that are currently focused. The moderator of this meeting came from the PDIS team, and the group discussions, which accounted for most of the meeting, relied on three POs from the Ministry of the Interior, the General Accounting Office and the Engineering Society as the small table leaders of each group (the review moderator). Lead discussions in groups. 

 Before that, the three POs personally participated in all preparatory processes such as working meetings, pre-meetings, etc., and carefully read the conference manuals. They had done their homework on the topics, so they could fully grasp the dynamics of the case. Prior to the formal meeting, the three POs also had time with the PDIS team to "sandbox" possible discussion scenarios, and together they designed a "tool list" to assist in the discussion. 

 On the day of the meeting, the three POs took full advantage of the "hosting" technology that an open government liaison should possess, allowing participants to reach an effective dialogue within a limited time. 

 ### Not only the public sector, collaboration meetings can also be a platform for the people and the people 

 The development of collaboration meetings has been close to sixty, each due to the nature of its issues, policy stage, and status of stakeholders. Grow different looks. This case has a high degree of social concern. It touches on different areas such as animal protection and religious sacrifice, and stakeholders of all parties have different thinking directions and positions. If the discussion issues at each stage are not established first, or the moderator cannot guide them in a timely manner, the discussion process is likely to diverge and fall into the state of each word. 

 As mentioned earlier, government agencies have established a bottom line for public power intervention, and did not play the role of enforcer in this case, but all units are still actively participating in the preliminary preparation and internal and external communication processes, even if they are not related to the ministry. PO is also fully committed to it. Therefore, what we see in this case is that as a deliberative meeting within the system, the focus of the collaborative conference is not necessarily on the degree of public power's involvement. Instead, the administrative department can be used as the builder of the platform, and the diverse voices of the people can have mutual interaction. The field of listening and understanding. The presence of invitations from various ministries and conferences has also made the conference more diverse. 

 Whether from the perspective of the proponent, the animal protection group, or the temple or pig farmer, although no measures have been concluded to completely satisfy either party, all parties can fully clarify the current situation and express Show what you care about and ensure that government units act as a boundary between inaction and inaction. The value of this collaborative meeting is that when the conflict between religious sacrifice culture and humanitarian values occurs, the seemingly incomprehensible and opposing parties can have a chance to see each other's true situation, and also promote the parties to move towards "same reason" A small step forward. 
