---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: \"Square voting method\" and \"shared self-assessment\""
  excerpt: "After the interpretation of the Syrian Ministry in October last year, all the official colleagues are now able to participate in international social organizations with the permission of the authorities. This is also a change we have made in the public sector."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/0/06b90db7e18c8b1d288d2f565ae1141f14483a11.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


🗳 Previous [I have introduced](https://pdis.nat.gov.tw/zh-tw/blog/%e5%95%86%e5%91%a8%e5%b0%88% e6%ac%84-%e4%bd%a0%e4%be%86%e8%a8%b1%e9%a1%98-%e5%85%a8%e6%b0%91-%e9%82%84 %e9%a1%98/), this year's presidential cup hackathon adopts the newly invented "quadratic voting" (qv), which makes the results of the proposal more in line with the needs of the people. Coincidentally, in April this year, the Colorado House of Representatives also used QV to vote on the priorities of the budget. Taiwan and the United States have set important milestones for the new type of democratic governance in administrative and representative politics. 

🎪 QV is part of a recent “Jinjin” trend. In 2018, QV inventor, Microsoft Research Institute principal researcher Glen Weyl and University of Chicago Law School professor Eric Posner wrote the book "Radical Markets" (http://radicalmarkets.com/), including Within the QV, a total of five proposals to change the social system model have been heatedly discussed in the academic circles and the community, and have been listed as one of the annual selections by The Economist magazine. 

📢 Glen Weyl and Eric Posner believe that in the face of public affairs, people tend to share their opinions and are reluctant to share information that they only know. If we can promote more people to express their true ideas through well-designed market mechanisms, society can work together to find a better solution. The QV system of "the more points you have to vote, the more points you have to pay" is to let people vote according to their actual preferences so as not to waste points, so as to avoid the behavior of hiding true wills such as filling or voting. 

 Another innovative concept in the book is the Common Ownership Self-Assessed Tax (COST), which allows people to calibrate the price of their own assets, but must pay a certain percentage of the tax each year. Once someone is willing to pay for it, the holder of the asset cannot refuse. The original intention of COST is that although people's value assessment is mostly subjective (especially for intangible assets), through fixed taxation and market mechanisms, it can reduce the willingness to lift, and also make prices transparent, increase liquidity, and prevent Hoarding. Through the fundamental market mechanism, people can share actual preferences and information. This is the origin of the market. 

🌎 Glen Weyl In order to promote these ideas, I launched the RadicalxChange (RxC) campaign with Vitalik Buterin, the inventor of the Ethereum, and invited me to serve as a director of the Foundation. Civil servants have not been able to hold positions in foreign non-profit organizations in the past, but after the 铨 Syrian Ministry [as explained in October last year](https://issuu.com/pdis.tw/docs/__pdf-x?e=0), now All official colleagues can participate in international social organizations with the permission of the authorities. This is also a change we have made in the public sector. 

💡 The development of social innovation is based on a variety of trends of thought. The theories and tools developed by these thoughts are an important way to achieve social mission. Starting from the achievements of QV in Taiwan and the United States, I hope that in the future, the business colleagues will be more actively involved in international non-profit organizations, and will soon introduce the latest trends. In addition to the application in official business, Taiwan’s social innovation will be delivered instantly. To the international community and contribute to the world. 
