---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple column: The change and unchanging of the Forbidden City"
  excerpt: "In the next few months, we will assist the Forbidden City in redesigning the site for automatic ticket purchases, online bookings, and entry lines."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/7/776a1eae5095de146f2e2547fd26e3122ad0b9c6.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


🏰 When you say "The Forbidden City," what do you think of? Is it a rich collection of sturdy, solemn courtyards, or an international museum that carries a long history and is able to keep up with the times and dare to embrace the spirit of openness and collaboration? 

 Since the last month, my office (PDIS, the Public Digital Innovation Space of the Executive Yuan) has officially launched a collaboration with the Forbidden City at the invitation of the President of the Forbidden City. In the next few months, we will assist the Forbidden City in redesigning the site for automatic ticket purchases, online bookings, and entry lines. Through interviews with multi-stakeholders; collaborative discussions with users on a complete record; before the deadline, full-process testing and other procedures are included, so that the Forbidden City will be closer to the user's true feelings from next year, providing visitors with convenient and comfortable purchases. Ticket experience. 

 This is another step in the Forbidden City on the road of openness and collaboration. In July of the previous year, under the impetus of President Lin Zhengyi, the Forbidden City opened more than 70,000 pieces of cultural relics in the form of open materials, and anyone can download and use it free of charge. Under the continuation of the success of the two deans, Chen Qinan and Wu Micha, the number of open accounts has accumulated to more than 100,000. Although the speed and quantity have to be strengthened compared with the Metropolitan Museum of New York or the National Museum of the Netherlands, looking at the museums in the same level in Asia, the Forbidden City is at the forefront and is of great significance. In the follow-up, the Forbidden City will continue to expand and deepen the quality of open materials with the support of the forward-looking infrastructure budget, which is worth waiting for. 

 In addition, the Forbidden City is also ingenious for the innovative application of new media. In February of the previous year, I "attached" to a robot that was able to move freely and equipped with a 360-degree panoramic lens. I first visited the South Palace of the Forbidden City, and the dean of Lin Zhengyi and hundreds of people who were online at the same time or watched the video afterwards. Together, I have seen the most popular Japanese art in Tokyo - the Kyushu National Museum in Tokyo. For me, the experience of experiencing the time and space constraints is definitely a new way for the Forbidden City to improve publicity and establish new paradigms. 

 The essence of the Forbidden City lies in the constant preservation of the collection, capturing the fleeting beauty of history; at the same time, how to adapt to the trend, so that more viewers can get close to the Forbidden City through multiple ways. This is not only an opportunity to grasp, but also a responsibility to achieve change. 
