---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple column: Mazu arrived home to protect you safely"
  excerpt: "The \"out-of-the-road team\" transforms Taiwan's world-class experience in tranquil care into a \"mobile smart care support platform\" that allows patients and their families to use their mobile phones or computers at home."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/e/ecb7dffd972a721dec11a2bc4a500f655f76a2f3.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


🏆 27th is the final day of the 2nd &quot;Presidential Cup Hacker&quot; on the 27th of last month. Congratulations to &quot;Out of the Tour&quot;, &quot;Silver Angel&quot;, &quot;Division of the Court&quot;, &quot;I know the scam&quot; Five teams, including the &quot;Application for Small Helpers&quot;, were selected as outstanding teams and were personally praised by President Tsai Ing-wen. 

👸 As the first team to win the award, the core proposition of the “out tour team” is “Mazu arrives at home and protects you safely: providing people and families who choose to be at home, a precise peace of learning, finding and taking care of The Care Knowledge Platform was proposed by the Department of Nursing and Health Care of the Department of Health and Welfare. Collaboration partners include: Lingwang Technology, Zhongwei Development Center, Yangming University, and Liu Yanling Home Care Center. 

 According to domestic and foreign literature, the vast majority of terminal diseases suffer from &quot;two, three, no&quot;: to be independent, to be at home, not to suffer, not to extend, not to drag down family members. However, in fact, most of the terminal patients in Taiwan have died in hospitals. 

 Take the cancer of the top ten causes of death in Taiwan as an example. Nearly 50,000 people die every year from cancer, and eight of them have died in hospitals. Why? &quot;The patrol team&quot; believes that there are still three pain points in the home peace, which need to be resolved:

 First, what changes will occur to patients and their families &quot;don&#39;t know&quot; and what preparations need to be made;
😵 Second, I feel &quot;uneasy&quot; about the quality of home care and the resources that are close to the community;
🤔 Third, how the &quot;unexpected&quot; symptoms will develop, resulting in emergency response often being caught off guard. 

 Even if it seems to be a problem, the team is still successful in demonstrating the possibility of change. To put it simply, through data integration and technology applications, the &quot;outbound team&quot; has transformed Taiwan&#39;s top-notch experience in tranquil care into a &quot;mobile smart care support platform&quot; that allows patients and their families to use their mobile phones or computers at home. &quot;.&quot; 

 For patients, you can know in advance the evolution of the disease, learn the self-care skills you need to prepare, such as the steps to slow down the pain; for the family, you can get multiple information and support services through a single window. In addition, family members separated from each other can also synchronize the physical changes of patients through real-time data or image updates. 

 Of course, the essence of tranquil care is to return to people. A more powerful medical knowledge platform cannot run alone if it leaves the mutual trust of medical relationships or the lack of family and patient acceptance. Therefore, in addition to the continuous development of the “out of the team” smart care platform and the expert artificial intelligence system, the Ministry of Health and Welfare also promised to strengthen social dialogue and popularize the knowledge of care, and achieve “prepare for good at the end, and get away from home at home” The goal. 

 <center> 
 <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5P66X7mYjAg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 
 </center> 
