---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: not only common origin, but also share the future"
  excerpt: "The complete historical data of the government e-procurement network has been made public to academic researchers this year, but this is not the case in most countries."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/0/0ce59c16b3a62d6c85908d7370e1fe69664dacd0.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 In the past three years, I have led a delegation to participate in the "Social Enterprise World Forum" every year. This year is no exception. The conference was held in turn by the five continents. Therefore, in October, I and 45 partners from all walks of life went to Africa to share the Taiwan experience in Ethiopia. 

 For many people, the African continent seems to be far away. But in this forum, I have seen the challenges faced by African friends. They are also the problems that Taiwan has faced. For these friends, our experience is very precious. Taiwan’s social innovation company, Weijie Biomedical, is one of the “one dollar fast screening tuberculosis”. 

 Currently, the main method of detecting tuberculosis is after the sputum is collected by the hospital, and the inspector then interprets the specimen through the microscope. This practice is not only time-consuming and labor-intensive, but also difficult to accurately confirm the results, and the global infection cases are still high. In 2018, 250,000 children and more than 1 million adults died of tuberculosis. 

|To this end, the automatic microscopy system developed by Weijie, combined with AI image recognition, can greatly reduce the inspection cost, in addition to improving the sensitivity of case detection and solving the problem of insufficient medical manpower in remote areas. Take [WHO's recommended testing tool xPert](https://www.tb.org.tw/uploads/104_w/02.pdf) as an example, which costs nearly $10 each time. Through this system, the tuberculosis quick screening is only $1 each time. Weijie has gradually expanded its revenue and plans to promote the system to the world in the future. 

🇹🇼 The promotion of the Taiwan government has also triggered local resonance. Previously, the chief executive of the Skills for U, Huang Weixiang, proposed in the Executive Yuan Youth Advisory Committee that the technical staff competition can be put into the teaching site after winning the prize. Not only will they be cheered during the National Day parade, but they will also be self-sufficient. In the "Youth Participation in Innovation" session, I explained how the youth guide the policy. Eleni Zaude Gabre-Madhin, an economist at the same venue, was impressed. After the meeting, Eleni invited me to visit the blueSpace, his co-working space. 

 Three years ago, Eleni founded Ethiopian for the first time to combine the blueMoon new seed base of agricultural enterprises and youth development, and strive to train outstanding young entrepreneurs aged 15 to 29 to invest in agricultural innovation and innovation. blueSpace is the base. A service provided. "How to spread African food to the whole world?" When I arrived, many young friends were discussing the brand marketing of African agriculture. I was able to successfully convert various products into Taiwanese pearl milk tea and become an example of global creative cuisine. 

 Unearthed from the famous humanoid fossil "Lucy" in Ethiopia, East Africa is widely regarded as the origin of mankind. I believe that discussing social innovation in the common hometown of mankind this time is indeed of great significance. The descendants of Lucy stepped out of Africa and opened up human civilization – just as many pioneers on the road to social innovation have become models. 
