---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple column: Discussing \"empty house tax\" stop watching"
  excerpt: "If the water use data and the on-site visits are conducted, it will enable local governments to accurately grasp the quantity, type and distribution of \"empty houses\" in their respective jurisdictions."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/c/c90126ea4dc7daa2c64754190d534851232265a2.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


 In May of this year, netizens participated in the platform proposal of the China Development Council's public policy network, arguing that “the empty house tax should be levied”. The case was approved by the Executive Yuan's "Open Government Liaison Meeting" and became the theme of the 51st Collaborative Meeting. A collaborative meeting was held on July 19th. It is expected to be confirmed by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior at the end of this month. Publicly respond on the platform](https://join.gov.tw/idea/detail/348212d3-179e-4789-9e1e-ff2bcf4c00c8). 

 Here, it can be pre-shared that during the preparation of the collaborative meeting, by interviewing stakeholders and analyzing statistical data, my office (Public Digital Innovation Space, PDIS) found that if you want to explore The feasibility of the "empty housing tax" has at least the following three questions, which must be clarified first. 

 First of all, the proportion of “low-use (electricity) housing” in each county and city has no significant positive correlation with house prices. "Low use (electricity) housing" is a statistical analysis of the use of tax information and Taipower electricity data by the Construction Department of the Ministry of the Interior. According to the latest statistics, there were nearly 865,000 low-income (electricity) dwellings in the country in November and December 2017, accounting for 10.12% of the total number of houses. This ratio was 11.49% in 2009. 

 In order to match the time, PDIS simultaneously queried the statistics of the “Household Affordability Indicators” conducted by the Ministry of the Interior in the fourth quarter of 2017, and found that the top six counties in the “price-to-income ratio” in that quarter were Taipei City (14.99 times), New Taipei City (12.71 times), Taichung City (9.61 times), Changhua County (8.79 times), Hsinchu County (8.62 times), Kaohsiung City (8.22 times). At the same time, the proportion of “low-use (electricity) housing” in the above six counties and cities is 6.73%, 7.65%, 9.66%, 11.78%, 11.13% and 10.53%, respectively. It can be seen from this that the relationship between the proportion of "low-use (electricity) housing" and housing prices is still open to question. 

 Second, "low-use (electricity) housing" has many causes and it is difficult to generalize. In terms of regional statistics, it may be that the population is moving out, or it may be the accumulation of unsold surplus houses. In addition, a certain house will be used at a low level, except for those held by investors and not yet rented out. It is because the building is remote and the ownership is so complicated that the owner does not want to manage and many other factors. In short, the multi-dimensional nature behind the phenomenon of "low-use (electricity) housing" cannot be ignored. 

 Third, PDIS and the organizer will select the “low-use (electricity) residential” data as the basis for this collaborative meeting. However, after the discussion on the same day, we also found that if we use water resources and field visits, we can better enable local governments to accurately grasp the quantity, type and distribution of "empty houses" in their respective jurisdictions. 

 The proposal for a public policy participation platform often involves many levels of social phenomena. Through this collaborative meeting, we hope to clarify the facts as much as possible, so that future discussions will be more focused and traceable, and we welcome everyone to continue to pay attention to the follow-up response. 
