---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: Guarding a cup of coffee in Dawushan"
  excerpt: "The coffee industry hall and cooperatives, like the hundred-step snakes and clay pots, guard the concentrated Ulaljuc tribe. I also hope that with the support of the local creation strategy, the development of all parts of Taiwan will shine like the sun."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/optimized/2X/9/99b5176d6b7441531c1fb302aacc48f10481b2ca_1_690x401.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 At the beginning of this month, the National Development Association invited a new Youth Advisory Committee of the Executive Yuan to hold a forum on the “National Genesis National Strategic Plan” (). Participants [Fuyung Xiyi](https://advisory.yda.gov.tw/02/userpost/27) shared their experience in operating Aboriginal Computer Information Labor Cooperatives and believed that when introducing technology to support local industry reforms, Let the people cooperate to cultivate technical talents, and the culture will last forever. 

☕ This reminds me of a cup of coffee I tasted in Pingtung. This cup of coffee comes from the Ulaljuc tribe, and there is a story of a native creation. 

⛰ The Morakic catastrophe in 2009 destroyed the old Taiwu tribe, and after the village was renamed Ulaljuc (the Paiwan language, meaning the big tribe with four small communities). In order to rebuild, the tribes inspected and found the coffee garden in the Japanese occupation on the mountain, and selected "organic boutique coffee" as the development goal. Today, Taiwu Township has 126 hectares of coffee and 178 households of coffee farmers. The tribal coffee industry pavilion opened in 2016 is the only post-production plant in the country that can perform “organic coffee back-end processing verification”. Students can come here for further study. 

🏆 Now, Taiwu Coffee is successfully spread to the world. In 2016, the International Coffee Review Coffee Review rated Taiwu Sun-Beans as 93 points and selected it as the top three in the Asia-Pacific region, making it one of the most representative coffees of the year. One of the keys to success of Ulaljuc is that the tribes have established coffee production cooperatives, using their own brands to integrate upstream and downstream industry chains, supporting each other and marketing together, and today's results. 

 According to the [Ministry of Internal Affairs website](https://coop.moi.gov.tw/), there are currently more than 4,000 cooperatives in Taiwan, including production, distribution, labor, consumption, etc. Cooperatives can also operate insurance and provide services. 

 For the labor cooperatives that mainly rely on labor services, in the past, due to different interpretations of laws and regulations, the definition of members and employees was unknown. When contacting government contracts, they often hit the wall because they could not provide relevant documents related to employment. Therefore, we are coordinating the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour and the Engineering Association. In the labor procurement contract, we have added the "Protection of the Rights and Interests of Cooperative Members" to enable the various agencies to better understand the nature of the "common governance" of the cooperatives and to confirm the members' Labor rights and interests enable the power of the cooperative economy to be fully utilized. 

🍯 The Paiwan people passed on each other. Before the ancient times, the sun was laying eggs in the pottery, and the hundred-step snake was guarding it. Finally, a man and a woman were hatched, which is the ancestor of the tribe. Therefore, the Ulaljuc tribe's relocation village monument is surrounded by three kinds of tokens: the sun, the hundred-step snake and the clay pot. 

🌞 The coffee industry hall and cooperatives, like the 100-step snake and the clay pot, guard the concentrated Ulaljuc tribe. I also hope that with the support of the local creation strategy, the development of all parts of Taiwan will shine like the sun.