---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Citizen's land among flowers"
  excerpt: "The pursuit of democracy for hundreds of years has formed a multicultural and intercultural identity with civil society as the main body."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/optimized/2X/6/6cde9aac68d11d417e106f5b0582fd973fd14355_2_1380x776.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 At the beginning of this year, the term "sense of demise" suddenly appeared, and it immediately became a popular keyword on Taiwan's Internet, and was even nicknamed "mango sense". 

 As stated by Mr. Zhang Juanfen in [First Article](https://www.upmedia.mg/news_info.php?serialno=75174), the discussion of this sense of "desperation" reflects that A collective emotion. Many people are anxious and even weak. 

 Where does the "Sense of Destiny" come from? In my opinion, it mainly comes from the fear of loss. 

 However, as long as we participate in the creation of democracy, we are the best defense. Because, the process of building democracy by hand will let us experience the real and steadfast, and gain confidence of continuous progress. At the same time, all people living in this land of Taiwan can face the crisis of democracy together due to their efforts. 

 "Why didn't we decide on Taiwan's affairs ourselves?" This is a broken alarm bell on the waist of the book "The Counterattack of the Sense of Desolation". I hope that all readers, in addition to reading this book to find answers, should also actively participate in creating democratic opportunities. Even the smallest start may be the starting point of Spark. 

 From the Austronesian family to the new inhabitants, since ancient times, Taiwan has always been the cradle of many bloodlines and cultures. After centuries of democratic pursuit, it has formed a multicultural and intercultural identity with civil society as the main body. 

 Therefore, I want to respond to the new interpretation of the "Republic of China"-"to "People-oriented" Republic of China "": 

> The ocean of mother-in-law, the island of beauty; 
> The country of citizens is in the flowers. 
> 
> Swirling ocean, beautiful islands: 
> A transcultural republic of citizens. 
