---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: Keep up, look up at the stars"
  excerpt: "This is also the first time that the issues that the two sides will pay close attention to will be open to the public to discuss."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/6/6e04f33dd4d43861d4f334783209baec38a555bc.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---

> "For four million years, in the collision between the Eurasian plate and the Philippine Sea plate, Taiwan has continued to look upwards and look up at the stars - this is the future."

🌌 2016 I took office the previous month On the Q&A platform, I asked questions from all walks of life. At that time, a reporter from Hong Kong TVB asked me, "What is your vision for Taiwan? When you think of "Taiwan" in your mind, how do you imagine her future?" This was when I gave The answer. 

 The plate pushes and creates a fault zone under the surface, which is the main cause of many earthquakes in Taiwan. For me, the human civilization in this land has the same "fault". 

: taiwan: In 1987, the government of the Republic of China lifted the martial law for nearly 40 years, and the two major sectors of the long-term conflict were “authoritarian” and “freedom”. 

 🗽 🗽 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 30 

 🔢 Traditional conversations on topics, most of which divide participants into positive and negative sides, tend to be polarized during discussion, and even lead to confrontation and attack. But in recent years, with the help of digital tools, there has been more ways of dialogue. 

📈 Pol.is is one of the widely used tools. Everyone can put forward ideas on the topic page, and then let other participants express their feelings about each other's ideas with the three options of "Agree", "Disagree", and "Skip". The system visualizes the spectrum of all people based on the participants' opinions and voting results, and then calculates the distance between the participants and other people's positions. 

 In 2015, on the digital economic regulation adaptation platform (vTaiwan), stakeholders discussed the policy direction of “diversified taxis” through Pol.is. This kind of design is beyond the past few people's heads, and wins and loses. In addition to presenting different opinions at a glance, participants can also see people who disagree, may be people they know, and then reunite consensus. 

 When the reporter asked me questions, everyone’s answers must be different. Today, through this approach, we have the opportunity to find out the intersection of each other. 

 From the experience of vTaiwan, the open source communities in Taiwan and Canada, Spain, Denmark, and Singapore continue to improve Pol.is, strengthen security, implement EU privacy protection regulations, and add automatic translation capabilities. . Since April this year, the cooperation between the American Association of Taiwan (AIT) and the Executive Yuan has been based on the newly adjusted Pol.is to build a "digital dialogue platform" ([talkto.ait.org.tw](https:/ /talkto.ait.org.tw)). This is also the first time that the issue of mutual concern between Taiwan and the United States will be open to the public to discuss. I believe this will become a model for the future: letting international cooperation is no longer just an agreement between the government and the government, but also a synergy between the people and the people. 
