---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week column: You make a wish, the whole people are \"willing to\""
  excerpt: "This year, the second \"Presidential Cup Hacker\" will be held. The \"Citizens Wishing Pool\" is also set up. If you have a good idea, you can make a wish and let people who have time come to collaborate."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/4/4cd56562902bcfb46c32309b5d438cbdc4d1dc2d.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


The second Saturday of March is the thirty-third hackathon of the government at g0v. I saw [registration page](https://g0v-jothon.kktix.cc/events/g0v-hackath33n), remembering myself when I first hacked. That was fourteen years ago, I had 14 hackathons in one year. 

 At the time, I saved some money and decided to put my half-year leave into the implementation of the new programming language Perl 6. When I put forward this idea on the Freenode platform, hundreds of partners soon joined the collaboration, so I traveled all over the world and made friends with like-minded people. 

 What is Hackathon? It is a combination of Hack + Marathon. Hack refers to the quick completion of tasks, problem solving, and if a group of people "marathon" gather together, what they want to do is hackathon. 

 In the process of running these 14 hackathons, I found a flaw: Many things need to be implemented, and then openly said, "This is really too difficult. Can you help me a little?" When I talk about this sentence, I will try my best and everyone who knows this will help. 

 After many years, I saw the specific appearance of this idea in the "Wish Pool" system of [g0v Citizenship Technology Grants](https://grants.g0v.tw/). The wishing pool allows anyone with an idea to "make a wish" to the public - to write down ideas, and anyone with a willingness and interest can claim and complete the idea. 

 This year, the second "[Presidential Cup Hacker](https://presidential-hackathon.taiwan.gov.tw)" will be held, and the "Citizens Wishing Pool" will be set up. It is a good idea but it is a good idea. If you don't have time to do it, you can make a wish and let people who have time come to collaborate. 

 The proposal for the President's Cup will be based on the newly invented Quadratic Voting (QV) in 2013: everyone has a fixed amount of points. If you like a case, vote for it. It only takes 1 point, but if you want to vote for two votes, you will spend 4 points, and so on, that is, the number of points paid is the square of the number of votes. In the case that the more votes are more expensive, the election is bound to be the most eagerly awaited proposal of the society. 

 In addition, this time, the prefecture and city leaders' proposal is also opened. Many friends who do social innovation work often tell me that there are thousands of different places in Taiwan, and the difficulties and potentials vary greatly from place to place. It is precisely for the heads who know the local needs and problems to ask questions, so that the whole people can find answers together and inject live water into the place. 

 🚸 African Bantu has a word called Ubuntu, which means: people do not exist alone, but through mutual support and help, they can complete and surpass themselves. 

 连结 By helping others to connect the world, this is what I realized fourteen years ago. I hope that more people can share what they have learned and what they have contributed, and that every hacking is a practice of Ubuntu spirit. 
