---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Business Week Column: Distance between University and Social Innovation"
  excerpt: "The creativity and vitality demonstrated by the teachers and students fully demonstrate the socialist spirit of \"the things of all, the help of the people.\""
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/8/8684ab48f4ab0d2f6a57471f21535170c04e093e.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


🎓 “Can a private school become a social innovation organization?” A few days ago, Fang Yuanzhang from the Culture University asked me this question. 

📜 Fang will ask this question because the Ministry of Economic Affairs announced the “Registration Principles for Social Innovation Organizations” in August this year. 

 Last year, the &quot;Company Law&quot; was amended, and the conditions for the establishment of the first company were added, and &quot;the company has adopted the act of promoting public interest.&quot; Social enterprises that take into account the social mission and market operations can register as a company and voluntarily expose the charter to solve the problem that the past profit and mission are incompatible. 

 However, in the social enterprise ecosystem, organizations with various types of organizations also hope that their social missions and concrete results can be more clearly disclosed. Therefore, when the amendment to the &quot;Company Law&quot; was passed, the Legislative Yuan attached a resolution requesting the government to discuss how to respond to the needs of these friends within one year. 

🇪🇨 To this end, many friends are actively seeking ways and advice. In March of this year, I met with William H. Clark, Jr., the main promoter of the United States&#39; Common Law Act. He shared the case of Ecuador and provided a reference for Taiwan: that is, after first proposing administrative rules and experimenting for a while, Form a formal law. 

 The advantage of &quot;administrative rules&quot; is that organizers who are committed to social innovation can take the initiative to expose the charter, mission and public interest report without penalties. Not only is the protection in the current legal mechanism, but also the relevant units refer to the results of the trial, and then decide how the law is fixed. Therefore, we use the &quot;social innovation organization registration principle&quot; as a pilot point. Any organization type can be registered as a social creation organization. The purpose is to enable any friend who is interested in social creation to log on the platform. Find a partner and expand the social circle. 

 So, can private schools become social innovation organizations? My answer is: &quot;Of course!&quot; Private colleges and universities, as long as they are registered in the organization type of the &quot;corporate corporation&quot;, they can be regarded as &quot;business-oriented mode and financial corporation&quot;. A social organization that is a type of organization. 

 Over the years, both the Ministry of Education&#39;s &quot;U-start Innovation and Entrepreneurship Program&quot; or the &quot;University Social Responsibility Practice Program&quot; (USR) have demonstrated the creativity and vitality of the teachers and students. The creative spirit of &quot;the things of all, the help of the people.&quot; As a organizer, colleges and universities will also develop closer partnerships for the practice of sustainable development. 

 Recently, the Cultural University has officially registered as a social innovation organization. I also look forward to the future, whether it is a public or private higher education institution, can join the [si.taiwan.gov.tw](https://si.taiwan.gov.tw) platform to join the ranks of social organizations. 

 <center> 
 <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ui6C1LEy0sg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 
 </center> 
