---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Starting from scratch: Taiwan's democratic innovation"
  excerpt: "Audrey Tang, Digital Minister of Taiwan, believes that the most important thing is the spirit of public dialogue and collaboration."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/c/c2061a5cd697744724d0462de0dd744ce66aea4f.jpeg"
  author: "Audrey Tang、Sheau-Tyng Peng"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "Open Government"
---

📹 In 2012, the Executive Yuan launched the “Economic Power-Up Plan” advertisement, which was based on the phrase “Everything is accelerating”. Four citizen hackers were dissatisfied with the government’s rash response and decided to respond with positive actions. 

🗺 They made the “Central Government Total Budget Visualization” project to make the data easy to understand, and the public can also rate and comment on each budget. This project is one of the most active citizen technology communities in the world today, and the prototype of the g0v government. 

 Since then, Taiwan has taken the core concept of "taking technology to the realm of people's lives, rather than requiring people to enter the space of technology", and trying to incorporate the spirit of collaboration into government governance. I therefore decided to accept the government's invitation to serve as an executive public official, promote administrative innovation, and create digital cooperation possibilities between citizens and the government. 

 We believe that the government must first trust the people to have the right to set issues, and the people can create democracy. 

📶The existence of democracy and freedom in Taiwan is not taken for granted. In 1987, the Government of the Republic of China lifted the martial law for nearly 40 years. The first presidential direct election was held in 1996. At this time, Taiwan has a fairly solid civil society. People are used to joining the community and NGOs to join hands with community partners. It is also this year that the Internet has begun to rise around the world, and Taiwan is no exception. 

🚅 Taiwan's main island is 394 kilometers long and takes about one and a half hours from Taipei to Kaohsiung. This kind of geographical environment gives us great advantages in the development of the network. "Broadband human rights" is the core policy of the current government. The Internet access rate of people over the age of 12 is 87%. For the 23 million people in Taiwan, using the Internet as a public discussion space is more natural than voting. 

🚸 "The generation of customary authority" and the "generation of habitual freedom" coexist in the Taiwan society, and there are still conflicts and running-in. And we find "practical collaborative participation" as a common link in democracy in the digital age. 

🗺 Since the g0v project is openly licensed and encouraged to change, the Executive Council's Join (Public Policy Network Participation) platform and the Taipei City Government have successively adopted the budget visualization system as the basis for the “participatory budget”, making it easy for the public. Understand budget allocation and engage in discussion. 

 Attracting the Join platform, which attracts more than 4 million people, the function is certainly not limited to watching the budget. Join's "Pictures" area, open the public proposal, as long as there are 5,000 people linked, the relevant responsible department will have to respond. 

 In addition, we have set up an “open government contact person” in each ministry as a single window for inter-departmental cooperation and a bridge between the public sector and the public. For example, whenever there is a proposal on the Join platform, we will hold a collaborative meeting, inviting the people and relevant government departments to join the discussion, in order to unite the consensus of all parties, and then innovate the policy. 

 Currently, we have had more than 40 collaborative meetings, whether it is improving online tax filing software, local medical resources, or exploring the fisheries and ecological balance of marine national parks, through stakeholder Inviting and collaborating to find a solution. 

We have found that the public sector needs to adopt folk innovation, and it needs to form an ecosystem for the government, the community, and the enterprise, and has a clear mechanism to regulate its transportation and “how to give an account”. The influence. 

 At the same time, only by letting the legal system keep pace with the times and backed by regulations can we promote social innovation and drive regulatory innovation. Therefore, the Executive Yuan launched the “Innovation Laws and Regulations Sandbox Platform” in 2017, allowing people who are engaged in innovation to experiment freely within a certain period of time without being bound by regulations. 

 The vTaiwan platform, initiated by the g0v community, is another important driver of the establishment mechanism. Prior to the government's proposed Diversified Taxi Service Program in 2016, Uber's legitimacy was discussed enthusiastically through an online collaboration mechanism. In 2018, vTaiwan succeeded in facilitating the adjustment of platform economic regulations and the legalization of financial supervision sandboxes and unmanned sandboxes. 

 We also apply the spirit of the "ecosphere" to the development of Taiwan. This year's "Local Creative National Strategic Plan" is a combination of local production, government, learning, research, and society. It calls on residents to take concrete actions to participate in and unite their own visions of the local community. Ecosystem. 

 These practices not only lower the threshold of democracy, but also the process of mutual understanding between the people and the government. When people see that collaboration can bring results, they can stimulate their willingness to participate and give substantial feedback, and even further use and change to contribute to the citizen technology community. 

 One of the goals of the Executive Office's Public Digital Innovation Space (PDIS) is to bring such experimental results to friends around the world. Therefore, we continue to visit cities such as New York, Toronto, Madrid, Tokyo, and Hong Kong, and co-organize workshops with the Citizens' Science and Technology Community to share the democratic and innovative mechanisms of the PO system and collaborative meetings with friends around the world. The plan for g0v has also been transplanted abroad, such as the “Italian Zero Time Government” was established in 2018. 

 Today's international cooperation is no longer just an agreement between the government and the government, but also a synergy between the people and the people. For example, in the "Presidential Cup Hacker" held for the first time last year, the "Water Rescue Baby" team composed by Taiwan Water Company and folk friends used the "deep learning" algorithm to introduce the experience of the missing masters into the machine. Successfully made a water pipe inspection system with an accuracy rate of 70%. The team was therefore invited by the New Zealand government to participate in the local acceleration plan to provide the New Zealand people with solutions to the water shortage problem. 

 Many people often ask me: What will democracy look like in the future? I believe that the future of democracy will be based on the "culture of listening." Taiwan has a highly developed online environment with no historical burdens, so it is possible to experiment with a new model of democracy. 

🎨 As President Tsai Ing-wen said when he took office three years ago: "The former democracy is a confrontation between two values. The current democracy is a dialogue of different values."

🗽 Rethinking the government in the world At this time of governance, Taiwan's democracy, in which the people actively participate and the government responds at any time, is demonstrating the synergy and dialogue of the new-type citizens in the 21st century. 
