---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple column: Enhancing Taiwan-US economic and trade is not just a spectator"
  excerpt: "In mid-August, I will host an open forum to invite AIT, the American Chamber of Commerce, and colleagues from relevant ministries to discuss and respond specifically to the most resounding ideas in Digital Dialogue."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/7/75ed725ac0a3be748f05b5f3cb304fe7f4ba5326.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 Many people believe that international relations are the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and should be handled by professional diplomats. However, with the rise of public diplomacy, digital diplomacy, and our unique international situation, we are reminding that foreign affairs is not only the work of the government, but also the participation of society and enterprises, in order to create new paths and achieve new goals. . 

 From April, the American Association of Taiwanese (AIT), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and my office (PDI of the Executive Office Public Digital Innovation Space, PDIS) launched a "smart" fellowship-digital dialogue ([talkto .ait.org.tw](https://talkto.ait.org.tw/)). This series of activities discussed how to promote "Taiwan's role in the global society", "US-Taiwan economy and business relations", "US-Taiwan security cooperation" and "May-Taiwan people's relations" in April, June, August and October respectively. "The four major issues." 

📲 "Digital Dialogue" is the first time the US has publicly solicited suggestions from the Internet through the Internet. Through brainstorming, it explores how to enrich the content of diplomatic work so as to comprehensively enhance exchanges and cooperation with specific allies on diverse issues. . We can let the US set a precedent, which is enough to confirm that today's Taiwan-US relations are indeed getting better. 

 Currently, the topic we are discussing is "How to Enhance US-Taiwan Economic and Business Relations." If you think that it is necessary to formulate a strategy early, in response to a trade war in the wind and rain; or if the two sides should initiate negotiations on a free trade agreement; or if the United States can provide more incentives to help companies transfer their production bases and achieve mutual benefits, then "digital dialogue" It is the best platform for you to express your opinions and seek resonance. 

 In fact, the importance of Taiwan-US economic and trade relations can be seen from the recent two figures. First, according to the statistics of the Ministry of Finance, the United States is the region with the largest increase in exports in all of our major export markets in the first half of this year, an increase of 17.4% over the same period last year. In addition, in June this year, the US Department of Commerce held the "Select USA Investment Summit" in Washington. The number of our delegation exceeded 100, which is the highest in the world. It is obvious that many companies have already been able to make a candle. Machine first, early layout. 

 In mid-August, I will host an open forum, inviting AIT, the American Chamber of Commerce, and colleagues from relevant ministries to discuss and respond specifically to the most resounding ideas in Digital Dialogue. For bilateral economic and trade relations, this is a top priority for prosperity and stability in the region. What you can do is far more than just watching. 
