---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Chamber of Commerce column: Presidential Cup hackathon Answer \"Drinking is only for this?\""
  excerpt: "The future achievements of the team can solve more doubts for the society and implement the \"division of the people who feel the sense of the people\" that President Cai attaches great importance to."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/6/606099375bd1485019f4dc761094d19eb14c66e1.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 In summer, many people like to have a cold beer; however, drunk driving on the road often causes regrets. According to the statistics of the Police Department of the Ministry of the Interior, in the past five years, the number of &quot;drinking and transporting laws and regulations&quot; has averaged more than 50,000 per year. 

🚔 Alcohol is one of the social issues that many people are concerned about, and the government has also improved the law and increased the sentence. However, whenever the outcome of a court decision on a major drunk driving case is released, it will still cause public opinion to question: Why is it just &quot;justified?&quot; 

💁 This thorny issue has recently seen new breakthroughs. This year&#39;s Presidential Cup hacking, the court team of law and information experts, put forward two ideas of &quot;referee easy to read&quot; and &quot;sentencing reference helper&quot;. 

 In the past two years, the courts have successively developed several tools: &quot;Difficult Word Dictionary&quot; and &quot;German Dictionary of Referee&quot; to let people inquire about legal professional terms. The &quot;referee inquiry system&quot; can search for judgment judgments. However, these tools cannot be compared with each other, but cause difficulties in use. 

🔗 The court team was inspired by Wikipedia&#39;s interface design, and connected these tools to develop a &quot;referee readable&quot; browser plugin. When you query the referee in the future, you can see the corresponding explanation by moving the cursor to the word, so that interested friends can understand the content of the referee more quickly. 

🖥 &quot;Sentencing Information Little Helper&quot; is the application of machine learning. For example, the &quot;insecure driving offence&quot; caused by drunk driving, they first found out more than 50,000 related referee books from the existing referee database, and then sorted out the conditions of the crime, and then set these conditions in sentencing. Information system. 

 Anyone who is curious about the judgment, as long as the conditions such as &quot;alcohol breath concentration&quot; and &quot;vehicle type&quot; are set, not only can the scope of the proposed criminal responsibility be found, but similar cases can also be seen. This approach allows you to see that the same crime, even if there is only one different condition, may result in very different sentences. 

⚖ The court team was eventually selected as one of the five outstanding teams of the President&#39;s Cup. From them, we not only see the enormous potential of &quot;machine learning&quot;, but also the innovative energy brought about by &quot;joining together&quot;. Looking forward to the future achievements of the team, we can solve more doubts for the society and implement the &quot;strategy that gives the people a sense of change&quot; that President Cai attaches great importance to. Finally, I would like to thank the Executive Yuan Science and Technology Conference, the National Development Council, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the colleagues of the Institute for their assistance. Thanks to their efforts over the past few months, the President’s Cup hackathon has been able to complete smoothly. 

 <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vXdYDxK0goI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 
