---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple column: Open government meets open Congress"
  excerpt: "This opportunity is not only the first time we have tried a new mode of cooperation with the legislators' office, but also a new chapter in the process of Taiwan's promotion of open government and the opening of the Congress."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/2/2229fce6aab69fbf4a1371435c85fbfaac6e9516.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


 On May 31st, my office (PDIS, the Public Digital Innovation Space of the Executive Yuan) was invited by the legislator Qiu Zhiwei to participate in the [Implementation of Undisclosed Public hearings](https://www .facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=2677074105864517&id=1588286501409955)" preparation and hosting. 

 This opportunity is not only the first time we have tried a new cooperation model with the legislators' office, but also a new chapter in the process of Taiwan's promotion of open government and the opening of the Congress. Here, I would like to express my gratitude and affirmation to Mr. Qiu Zhiwei’s invitation and breakthrough. 

🆕 The difference between this public hearing and the past is mainly the following three points:

👂 First, the complete interview before the meeting. Based on experience, in order to collect multiple opinions, the organizers will invite as many stakeholders as possible to participate. However, with the increase in attendance and the number of speakers, it often leads to restrictions on the time for each speaker to express and exchange opinions at the meeting. In view of this, the PDIS host team and the committee office conducted a total of 10 interviews before the meeting. Through the repeated investigation of the "disclosure system" and detailed records, we ensured that all participants were one week before the event. We will first receive [full views and suggestions] on all issues of this issue (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mmEO8WPOzB8XDs4V0XMSmbO39I1ZkOZDTxks0J7cx-0/edit#heading=h.jgexw6fafmb). In other words, the synchronization and focus of the opinions have already started before the meeting officially begins. 

 Secondly, like other major issues, the content of "investigating undisclosed systems" can be described as profound and profound. In order to let every participant, as well as the viewers who watched the live webcast simultaneously, keep up with the rhythm of discussion, not to "get off the team" in the process, we use "[Heart Map] on the day of the conference (https://miro .com/app/board/o9J_kx42gKI=/)" as an aid. That is to say, through the chart, the investigation of the undisclosed system is dismantled into several major projects, and the execution process and difficulties of the individual projects are detailed, and the causal relationship is linked with each other in order, so that everyone can "click on the map" at any time. 

📜 Third, the public hearing will be completed all the time except for [webcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m4laqwtbk4o) and open online questions, and also [verbatim record](https) ://sayit.pdis.nat.gov.tw/2019-05-31-%e8%90%bd%e5%af%a6%e5%81%b5%e6%9f%a5%e4%b8%8d% e5%85%ac%e9%96%8b%e5%85%ac%e8%81%bd%e6%9c%83), and will be published on the pdis website after the conference ([track.pdis.tw]( https://track.pdis.tw/)). The intention of doing this is not only to let the meeting of the day leave a complete record, but also to let the relevant discussions continue in the future, you can refer to the reference. 

🚀 This successful attempt is the beginning of cross-institutional collaboration. Commissioner Qiu Zhiwei also said on the 31st that he will implement the "Reconnaissance of Undisclosed Work Methods" (https://mojlaw.moj.gov.tw/LawContent.aspx?LSID=FL068478) on June 15th. In the next three months, a public hearing will be held again. We look forward to hearing from other members in the future, and we can have more possibilities for cooperation. 
