---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple Column: 2020 Asia Pacific Social Enterprise Summit in Taoyuan"
  excerpt: "The City is studying the “Taoyuan City Local Voluntary Inspection Report” and hopes to become the 12th local government in the world to verify and track the effectiveness of the sustainable development goals in the region with actual data and cases."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/d/d121856e14443e4de5b39978ed77d84c5b8dc0b0.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 🆕 Share a good news with you: The 3rd Asia-Pacific Social Enterprise Summit will be held in Taoyuan in early May 2020. The organizer is the “Tempenary Hub Taipei” authorized by the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. )"team. 

 The last two summits were held in Taichung and Kaohsiung respectively. Not only did it attract thousands of highly enthusiastic and experienced people from all over the world, but also the participation of other countries through the continuous holding of the summit. Those have the opportunity to understand the development of Taiwan in related fields. At the same time, let the domestic people share their ambitions and hope that through innovative business models and business ideas, to solve specific social problems and promote sustainable development, there is a platform for exchanges and discussions. 

 Of course, the most important thing is to hold an international event. In late September, I accompanied my colleagues from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to accompany the organizers of the summit and met with Mayor Zheng Wencan to seek administrative support from the city. In addition to the promises on the spot, Mr. Zheng promised to lend a helping hand on the project schedule, transportation connection, and enterprise serial connection. It also made an efficient drafting of the inter-departmental ad hoc group, which is more like the introduction of the city’s past years. Auxiliary social enterprises, and suggested that the organizers can include more local elements of Taoyuan in activities such as "social business travel" and "social enterprise market". These are believed to be presented in the course of the next year's summit. It is worth waiting for. In addition, in order to promote the UN's 17 sustainable development goals and implement the overall policy objectives of "friendly and friendly, suitable and suitable for employment", Mayor Zheng Wencan also revealed that the municipal government is studying the "Taoyuan City Local Voluntary Inspection Report". (Voluntary Local Review, VLR), hopes to become the 12th local government in the world to verify and track the effectiveness of the sustainable development goals in the region with actual data and cases. 

 In fact, according to the main internal economic statistics indicators of the counties and cities of the Ministry of the Interior in 2018, the total fertility rate of Taoyuan City is not only the highest in Liudu, but also the second in the country, second only to Lianjiang County. In addition, Taoyuan is also the city with the highest net migration rate in Taiwan and the highest rate of social increase. These figures not only represent the achievements of Taoyuan in recent years, but also the foundation for promoting social innovation in the future. We hope that the addition of Taoyuan will be able to demonstrate for other counties and cities, and let Taiwan continue to grow on the road of sustainable development. 
