---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Relearn how to live together"
  excerpt: "The Internet has created \"new public spaces connecting digital and physical objects\"-in 318 and the Hong Kong Occupation Movement later in the same year, we have all seen such spaces form in situ."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/optimized/2X/1/19409f250bf3b34c4bab71e985bb282f2cbfd4aa_2_1380x516.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 🌻 On March 18, 2014, young social activists with hundreds of college students as the main body rushed into the Legislative Yuan to occupy the forum. At that time, the government was considering signing the "Service Agreement" with many doubts from the outside world. The ruling KMT Legislative Council announced the adoption of the "Service Agreement" in only 30 seconds in the controversial Legislative Council, and civil society was in an uproar. 

 📲 Shortly after the meeting was occupied, the entrance and exit channels were immediately blocked by the police. Therefore, many people used Facebook, LINE and other communication software to spread the situation on the Internet in real time, and it has become a 22-day occupation since then. During the operation, the use of the Internet was prevalent. 

 ✍️ In the 318 movement, many people are deeply involved in the scene through the Internet. At that time, the inside and outside of the occupation field heard from time to time "Police are coming" and "There are thugs" and other messages, so friends of the citizen technology community g0v set up a live broadcast station on the spot, so that people on the street can see the occupation site when they pass by. Later, some friends also took shorthand and live broadcasted on the subtitles wall to let the people passing by know the latest situation. 

 📰 Graduate students of major communication colleges, based on the common concept of "reporting facts", spontaneously publish news through the NTU News e-Forum Facebook page, which breaks the news of traditional media. The production process uses the hackpad platform to "co-author" to write news, and present reports through multiple methods such as visual charts, and interact with readers on the Internet to verify the information. 

 🌐 From organizers using communication software to connect, to journalists using digital tools to create reports and check messages, the Internet in the 318 movement, not only provides a channel for information circulation, but also connects people around the world who care about this issue people. Many subsequent studies also pointed out that many phenomena in the 318 movement coincide with Manuel Castells' theory of "network social movement". 

 🆕 318 Two years before the movement, Castells assembled his research and observations on large-scale social movements such as the "Arab Spring" that broke out from Tunisia in 2010 to the "Occupy Wall Street Movement" in the United States in 2011, and published [The book "Angry and Hope: Social Movement in the Internet Age"](https://www.books.com.tw/products/0010854944) soon became a classic in the field of social movement and information dissemination. During the years of ups and downs in various struggles, Castells' argument was constantly confirmed. For example, the Internet has created "new public spaces connecting digital and physical objects"-in the 318 and the Hong Kong Occupation Movement later in the same year, we all saw such spaces formed in situ. 

 Castells Another important observation is to point out the "individuality" and "autonomy" in the online social movement, which is more deeply reflected in the 2019 Hong Kong movement. The 318 movement occupied the Legislative Yuan for 22 days and was led by about 20 NGOs. In September of the same year, the umbrella movement in Hong Kong, although the voice of "anti-big stage" appeared later, certain organizations and athletes were regarded as leaders. , Still quite similar to the 318 movement. 

 🌊 This scenario has undergone a qualitative change in Hong Kong in 2019. Hong Kong people have taken to the streets to protest the "Fugitive Offenders Ordinance" many times since the beginning of the year, and the Hong Kong government's police force has been continuously upgraded, so that the athletes have called on the famous Bruce Lee star "Be water". Dispersed after the struggle. 

 🇭🇰 This Hong Kong struggle has subverted the form of past social movements that must have an organizer and a fixed location, so that each participant can be an organizer, and everyone can decide that they want to be here What to do, and willing to share and connect with other participants, quickly spread the information everywhere, to thousands or even tens of thousands of other organizers. 

 🚸 In addition to the philosophy of sports, the improvement of information and communication technology is also the key to the continuous flow of "water flow" sports. In 2014, the mass broadcast technology was just budding, so athletes often still only use photos and text, and may not always achieve the feeling of "common presence". This time, the "be water" of the Hong Kong people relies on the feeling of being present together to make collective actions, as Castells said: "Individual actors can be established with like-minded people in the network of their choice. Autonomy. "

 The main axis of this book seems to study the connotation of social movements. In fact, through these social movements, Castells is more directly directed to the common dream that the world urgently needs:" A new political deliberations, voices and decisions Format. "After the 318 Hong Kong Anti-Amendment Acts, elections at the local level in Taiwan and Hong Kong have undergone major changes. Starting in 2014, Taiwan has incorporated the spirit of open government into its policy, turning these occupiers and the demands of supporting the occupiers into a new direction and new force for the country. 

 🙋 This approach has opened up many more direct communication channels between the Taiwan government and citizens. For example, the National Development Council launched the Join Citizen Participation Platform in 2015 to open up public proposals. As long as there are 5,000 people signing up, the relevant units must respond. So far, it has exceeded 10.6 million visitors-almost half of Taiwan ’s population. 

 🗺️ In February 2020, due to the epidemic situation in Taiwan, the mask limit purchase system was implemented. The Health Insurance Department of the Ministry of Health and Welfare collaborated with g0v community friends to create corresponding open data applications in just 72 hours. Multiple channels such as maps, chatbots, voice assistants, etc. have successfully enabled friends in need to inquire about where to buy and supply and demand. 

 🗽 Today, incorporating people ’s opinions into policies and collaborating with civil society has become the daily routine of Taiwan ’s official culture. These new-style democratic experiments, except because Taiwan has a highly developed Internet environment, and more importantly, since the 318 movement, people learned that through the Internet, they can meet thousands of people who feel the same, and then Listen to each other, work together, and finally form a group action to promote change. 

 🎁 "The legacy left by the online social movement is to create a possibility for us to re-learn how to live together in a truly democratic society." The last sentence of this book is undoubtedly given by Castells The best reminder of the world: After every social movement, it is the real beginning. Only by courageously exploring the unknown and connecting with each other can we re-create democracy together and let the future come through us. 
