---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Youth participation, work together to create"
  excerpt: "Entering the government to actually participate in policies has gradually become a daily routine for young friends."
  image: "/assets/imgs/ffd5148f783cf67fd6ca0109125ee1cb61970cb0.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、簡德源、魏守斌、王少芸、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "青年參與"
---


Taiwan is surrounded by mountains and mountaineering activities are popular. In the past, before departure, mountain friends had to apply for admission to the National Park of the Construction and Construction Department, the application for admission to the mountain by the Police Department, and the application for mountain houses and nature reserves of the Forest Service Bureau. , Inputting almost the same information repeatedly has made the mountain friends a headache for many years. 

With the contributions of young friends, this issue has an opportunity for change. In 2019, in the "Rescue Action by Youth, RAY" (Rescue Action by Youth, RAY) organized by my office, a group of trainees designed a prototype of a mountaineering website, which reversed the users who have been criticized for a long time. Experience. The "Taiwan Mountaineering Application One-stop Service Network" subsequently launched by the Executive Yuan is the result of collaboration with various agencies under the guidance of the excellent design of this group of young friends. 

This collaborative experience has made me realize that young friends are often the easiest to empathize with existing problems in society and can provide exact solutions; however, friends who are committed to contribute are often limited by insufficient resources and difficult to use. At this time, if the government can propose channels of communication and connect with the community to support, it can make these good ideas more likely to be realized. 

For example, on the Public Policy Network Participation Platform of the National Development Council (Join.gov.tw), there was a proposal to ban plastic straws in 2017, which soon broke the threshold for joint signing. Later, everyone discovered that the joint signing proposal Wang Xuanru, a 16-year-old high school student. She not only succeeded in gathering strength through the Internet and gradually realizing the initiative to restrict plastic straws, she also became the first member of the Executive Yuan's "Open Government National Action Plan Promotion Group" this year. 

At the same time, thousands of young friends proposed to amend the civil law age of adulthood, which also won the support of the Executive Yuan. On August 13, 2020, the Court passed 38 amendments to the Civil Law, which will lead to adulthood. The age is changed from 20 to 18 (the right to vote in elections is discussed in accordance with the constitutional procedures)-these are the manifestations of youth's voluntary voice. 

To this day, entering the government to actually participate in policies has gradually become a daily routine for young friends. In 2016, the Executive Yuan established the Youth Advisory Committee. Starting from the concept of "reverse mentor (trainee consultant)", it not only allows young friends to enter the hospital to collaborate with various ministries, but also to give advice and point out the future direction for the government. 

The youth advisory committee members come from various fields of society and often have first-hand practical experience. They often have immediate results in linking the various departments of the industry, government, academia, and research institutes to solve social problems and participate in local development. For example, the first Valagas Gadeljeman (Hu Zhehao) committee advocated that colleges and universities should promote gender-friendly toilets, which was supported by the Ministry of Education and included in the subsidy index after the national census; when committee member Huang Weixiang served as the second youth advisory committee , The proposal allows WorldSkills Competitions (WorldSkills Competitions, WSC) national players to participate in the National Day parade. This proposal immediately received the support of the Executive Yuan, so that internationally renowned technical players can be recognized by the people. 

"There is a gap in everything, and the gap is the entrance of light." For me, the creativity and vitality of young friends is the light to solve social problems. I look forward to more young friends joining the ranks of collaboration in the future, so that the power of the government can promote your vector and weave a sustainable future together. 
