---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Guarding Taiwan and helping the world"
  excerpt: "How to share the Taiwan experience of \"National Cooperation\" is the goal of our continuous efforts while preventing virus intrusion."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/b/bc1fe22ebda6f2b3d3c2ab2b032e3349d6506fe7.png"
  author: "Audrey Tang, Sheau-Tyng Peng"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "Social Innovation"
---


🌐 April 28th is the 100th day since the establishment of the Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center. Taiwan has handed over the epidemic prevention achievements for many to see. Many countries have also come to consult the "Taiwan Model". 

💯 Judging from this hundred-day course, the epidemic prevention work depends not only on public officials and medical staff, but also on the joint participation of all people. Therefore, how to share the Taiwan experience of "National Cooperation" is the goal of our continuous efforts while preventing virus intrusion. 

🛫 In this regard, we have proposed two approaches: one of them is "[mask responsive humanitarian assistance](https://taiwancanhelp.com.tw/mask-dedicate)" that everyone can participate in. Through the National Health Insurance Mobile Express app, anyone can choose to use the "number of masks that can be purchased but not purchased" as humanitarian aid. Less than a week after the plan was launched, more than 460,000 person-times and nearly 4 million masks responded. At present, the desire of Taiwanese to help the world is still increasing. 

💡 Another activity is "[Taiwan Anti-epidemic Pine](https://cohack.tw/)" where everyone can join friends. Inspired by "g0v at home pine", both Taiwan and the United States decided to open up the people of the two places to propose good ideas for epidemic prevention in an all-line way. On the basis of the "Taiwan-US Joint Statement on Epidemic Prevention Partnership", we have listed six major themes, anyone can comment online. 

💬 Like the "[" Intellectual Commonwealth-Digital Dialogue Platform](https://talkto.ait.org.tw) "co-operated by the Executive Yuan and the American Association in Taiwan last year, the Taiwan-US Epidemic Prevention Pine also uses interaction The digital tool "Pol.is" allows participants to see the relative position of their ideas and others in the visual opinion spectrum, and to think and seek the possibility of consensus. 

⚖️ One of the characteristics of the epidemic prevention pine is that the organizer will make comments on the legality of each opinion from the point of view of Taiwan law, and simultaneously open it on the website for public reference. For example, it was proposed to set up an application to allow related personnel to go door-to-door to isolate the infected person. The legal system assessed that this opinion might violate the "Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Law" and would be marked as a "red light" that cannot be implemented. 

🎞️ Now that we have published the expert-assessed questions, anyone can come up with their own problem-solving concept, and make a three-minute explanatory video, public submission, and contribute innovative solutions to epidemic-related work. 

🚸 During this time, many friends have spontaneously invested in the collection of Taiwan's epidemic prevention resources and shared them with foreign communities. In my opinion, these civic actions to solve social problems are the best examples of social innovation. The "mask responsive to humanitarian assistance" and the "#cohack Taiwan-US epidemic prevention pine" are ideas that echo these practices and hope to encourage more people to work together to contribute to the world. 
