---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple Column: All People Make Wishes Together"
  excerpt: "Any suggestion in the \"Citizen's Wishing Pool\", as long as it is selected by the judging panel as the main axis, is likely to become a problem for the participating teams to try to solve the problem."
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/3/30ce40edc16234835798620d819143cd2401d275.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


 🏆 The annual President's Cup hackathon is entering its third year. This year, compared with last year, we also set up a "Citizen's Wishing Pool", so that every friend who has innovative ideas and hopes to solve social, economic and environmental problems, as long as February 19th, hacked the website ([ph.taiwan .gov.tw](https://presidential-hackathon.taiwan.gov.tw/)) Click on the "2020 Citizen Wishing Pool", you can refer to the examples prepared by the organizer in the 17 categories of sustainable development goals. , Make specific recommendations. 

 ⛲ Of course, this year's President's Cup hackathon also made a different attempt. In order to increase the importance of the "Citizen's Wishing Pool" in the overall activity, in addition to setting the recommendations selected by the judging panel as the main goal and providing the participating team's proposals for reference, the jury entered the selection stage, which means that the judging panel has targeted hundreds of When each team starts to give points, decide on promotion or elimination according to the order, any team that meets the core objective of the "Citizen's Wishing Pool Principal" will receive an additional 10% bonus. 

 🎯 The experience of the past two years has shown that the team can pass the two-stage selection test and obtain the top 20 and top 10 qualifications. The gap is often one or two points, or even tenths or hundredths. Between digits. This extra 10% bonus will be a key factor influencing this year's team rankings. In other words, any suggestion in the "Citizen's Wishing Pool", as long as it is selected by the judging panel as the main axis, is likely to become a problem for the participating teams to try to solve the problem. 

 🗳️ In addition, this year's Presidents Cup hackathon also continued to use the "square voting method". Every citizen who has been successfully certified on the National Development Association's "Public Policy Network Participation Platform (Join)" will automatically receive 99 points. Between April 24 and 30, he can allocate the points in his hand to Favorite teams, in another way, increase their chances of promotion. As for what is the "square voting method"? In simple terms, if you want to vote for a team, you only need 1 point, but you need 4 points for two votes, 9 points for three votes, and so on. 

 🚸 Based on the above, we hope that through the improvement and continuation of the "Citizen's Wishing Pool" and the "Square Voting Law", we will increase the public's awareness and participation in the President's Cup hackathon. After all, only the wisdom of everyone can do a good job. When all the people come to make a wish, it is possible to achieve it together. 
