---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Thousand-year dark room, one light is bright"
  excerpt: "Whether the darkness can be broken depends on whether more people are willing to be lighters and lighters."
  image: "/assets/imgs/d4e84f0fb3a9c635f888319731e06a4b8267ef52.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


Infectious diseases are conceived in the large-scale social life of human beings. Ironically, the plague not only harms public health, but also destroys the foundation of society—trust. 

The ancient way to fight infectious diseases is to increase interpersonal distance: lock the country, close the city, stop gatherings... It seems inevitable that society’s mutual distrust is increasing day by day, and it is even eager to blame the infectious disease. "Alien", whether it is a group of different races, nationalities or beliefs, from the Black Death in Medieval Europe to today's epidemic. 

In the anti-epidemic process in 2020, Taiwan has successfully prevented the slippery effect of distrust with its "open government." 

With the epidemic, masks and other personal protective equipment quickly fell into a supply-demand imbalance. The government promptly adopted a real-name system to ensure fair distribution. 

However, not only do masks have to be sold, but most people are willing to wear them correctly to prevent the epidemic. Who will execute it? More than 6,000 pharmacists, both with professional image and knowledge, but also in the community and neighborhood, seem to be the only people who are trusted and easily approached. 

Not just relying on the people to trust the pharmacist can accomplish everything. For pharmacists, this additional chore is likely to affect the normal drug dispensing business. However, the command center did not issue an order to force pharmacists to follow suit. Instead, it simulated the experience of receiving medications with continuous prescriptions for chronic diseases to design a real-name mask system to reduce the cognitive cost of everyone. 

On the other hand, in order to save work and waiting time, various processes developed by pharmacists, such as receiving number plates or limited-time sales, have gradually gained social recognition. Pharmacists are motivated by this kind of encouragement to further integrate the citizen science and technology community to improve automated processes and save people’s time; and the government has given full trust in the results of such collaboration, which will improve the data structure of the National Health Insurance Agency and iterate and form weekly A virtuous circle. 

In other words, the government and pharmacists may have consumed each other. When the government is willing to understand the needs of pharmacists and give space to participate together, can they win back more social trust together, and the lineup of the national epidemic prevention team will also increase. Grow stronger. 

##### "New" Xinxiangying

In addition, there have also been cases where hotel workers have been diagnosed. It can be imagined that such special places are particularly sensitive to privacy regardless of guests or workers. Under the needs of epidemic prevention, if reliable information is not provided for tracking, a big loophole will be formed. 

The government did not use penalties, or strictly ordered hotels and other places to close shops or people if they did not cooperate with the epidemic. If this is done, the society's stigma of related workers may increase, or it may be like a prohibition. The same caused the operators to go underground, and the unpredictability of the spread of the epidemic has increased significantly. 

Fortunately, the experts in the command center have had a lot of experience in HIV work in the past and have come up with a set of "real connection system": as long as they can effectively contact people, real names are not required. The command center also explained the crux of science clearly: social distancing must be maintained and droplet infection must be avoided. As long as the industry can do this, local governments can open up. 

So the industry came up with many innovative methods, such as leaving a code number and one-time email, easy to pay card mobile phone, wearing a hat with a face mask to maintain social distance and so on. If even hotels and dance halls can join the "anti-epidemic national team," social trust should not be easily devalued due to epidemic prevention. 

It seems that the interpersonal estrangement caused by the plague and the lack of trust caused by the interpersonal estrangement lies in the Bimaron effect: the more the ruler believes in the people, the more trustworthy the people are. 

The epidemic also poses severe challenges to government governance. In particular, countries have adopted isolation measures such as lockdown, lockdown, suspension of school, and closure of business, making many countries and cities look like islands in the "Lord of the Flies" . The pressure brought about by isolation, even if leaders are created through democratic procedures, representative democracy is rooted in partisan competition, which makes opposition and conflicts continue to rise. "Monsters" in everyone's hearts appear from time to time and are most easily sacrificed. It is undoubtedly science and reason, just like the "Piggy" in the story. So as the book says: "They go their own way, cognition and likes and dislikes are like different things, never overlapping"-as the epidemic spreads, it continues to be staged. 

Although Taiwan has not adopted isolation measures such as lockdown, it is not a utopia either. In particular, Taiwan’s space for international activities has been improperly ignored and blocked for a long time, creating internal pressure. Before the outbreak of the epidemic, there have never been a lot of mutual attacks and fights between parties, and they are more likely to intensify due to the development of the epidemic. 

But just before the fiercely contested January general election, there was [a survey](https://www.readr.tw/post/2102), which showed that no matter which camp the people are, the Both "deepening" and "international connection" are highly recognized. It seems that amidst the blizzard, there is still a kind of fire that radiates warmth. 

##### Light a lamp

Legislative member Gao Hongan, who served as deputy general manager of data analysis at Hon Hai. When she quoted the data of "[geoBingAn Mask Map](https://geobingan.info/event/mask)", she asked Minister Chen Shizhong, the Minister of Health and Fu, to point out the uneven distribution caused by the difference in supply and demand in various regions, and when she asked to adjust the equal rationing Minister Chen, who is highly popular, did not angrily defend the existing policies. Instead, he said: "Commissioner, ask us for advice," and immediately proceeded to revise it. The senior committee member immediately praised on Facebook: "Inquiry yesterday, improve today." The goodwill of the two sides based on the common values of democracy seems to have brought a glimmer of light. 

The Buddhist school says: "A dark room for a thousand years will be illuminated by a single light." Whether the darkness can be broken depends on whether there are more people willing to be lighters and lighters. 

I am not naive to think that as long as everyone has good intentions, the world will become better, and digital innovation is also crucial-the Internet does not have to maintain social distancing, and more importantly, digital lets you walk through Footprints can be left, so fragments of trust can always be connected, and some kind thoughts are often inspired. 

Mask map is just a suitable example. The National Health Insurance Agency puts the pharmacy's timely mask stock on the government information open platform. In less than a week, all walks of life have developed hundreds of applications, which can be accessed through various maps, chat robots or voice assistants. To inquire, it is tantamount to establishing a decentralized ledger, allowing trust to continue to accumulate over time. 

"Love your neighbor as yourself", perhaps because neighbors are no strangers, even when the plague spreads, it is not that difficult. In a digital world that transmits nearly 300,000 kilometers per second, it is indeed "close to each other." The epidemic has temporarily alienated people from relatives and friends, but digital has brought us very close to strangers. If everyone helps, the government can start by trusting the people. 
