---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Apple Column: Inside lane of highway is overtaking lane"
  excerpt: "How to improve the smoothness of highway traffic and the safety of passersby?"
  image: "https://talk.pdis.nat.gov.tw/uploads/default/original/2X/8/862bc67b532ae87d4dc5f67bda6a93e99864d0a3.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、黃子維"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


 🛣️ In October last year, netizen "Hon" filed a joint case on the Public Policy Network Participation Platform (Join.gov.tw), appealing for "inside lane speed limit lift", "center line speed limit increase" and "increase Penalty for slow driving on the inner side "and proposed that" fast trains can use the inner lane without causing accidents due to changing lanes and overtaking, which can make the highway safer "," reducing the time spent driving in two places and reducing the long time "Driving fatigue." 

 🚦 In fact, Article 8, Paragraph 1, Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 3 of the "Regulations on the Regulation of Freeway and Expressway Traffic" of the Ministry of Communications have been stipulated separately, "The maximum speed of expressways is 90 kilometers per hour. For the above sections, slower small cars with a speed lower than 80 kilometers per hour ... should drive on the outside lane and temporarily use the lane immediately adjacent to the outside lane to surpass the leading vehicle "," the inside lane is the overtaking lane. Without blocking the traffic, you can drive on the inside lane at the highest speed allowed on the road section. " However, Article 8 (2) also states that "in the event of a traffic jam, small cars may not be subject to the restrictions of paragraphs 1 and 3 of the preceding paragraph." 

 ⚖️ According to the Road Traffic Management Penalty Regulations, if a car driver fails to drive in the inner lane in accordance with regulations, a penalty of 3,000 to 6,000 yuan may be imposed. The National Highway Police Department also issued more than 36,000 tickets for these violations between 2017 and 2019. In summary, "Hon" hopes to implement the inside lane as a passing lane, which is not only based on law, but also consistent with the direction of law enforcement in recent years. 

 ⛰️ However, on the one hand, the design of Taiwan's expressway speed limit must consider passing through complex terrains such as urban areas, plains, hills, and terraces, which results in more curves and it is difficult to make the speed limit "infinite"; another On the other hand, the Transportation Research Institute of the Ministry of Communications also conducted "Analysis of Traffic Accidents Before and After Freeway Speed Limit Adjustment" in 2004. One of the conclusions was that "the A1 accident rate of high-speed limit sections is indeed higher than that of unadjusted sections" "(A1 is defined as" a traffic accident that caused death of a person on the spot or within 24 hours "). In other words, there is still room for discussion whether to cancel the speed limit on the inner lane or increase the speed limit on the centerline. 

 🙋 Based on the above considerations, my office (Public Digital Innovation Space of the Executive Yuan, PDIS) and two co-responsible units, namely the National Highway Police Station and the Highway Bureau, took "how to implement the inner lane as Overtaking is used preferentially, and it is necessary to drive at the highest speed under normal traffic flow, in order to improve the smoothness of highway traffic and the safety of passersby? "As the core question, a collaboration meeting was held on March 6 this year to invite multi-stakeholders have a discussion. 

 🔢 The main gains of this meeting were to promote the release of more statistical data from the Highway Bureau, as a reference for the National Highway Police Bureau to strengthen scientific and technological law enforcement in the future, and improve the efficiency of police force distribution. It is also for the parties to further explore and publicize Opportunities for the "Inner Expressway Lanes Are Overtaking Lanes" policy. 
