---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Looking ahead to 2022: digital allies come forward"
  excerpt: "Governments and citizens in cyberspace are about to form a \"global community.\""
  image: "/assets/imgs/FDZgAqpaMAEaisz.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、馮瓊儀"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


The epidemic that has ravaged the world so far in 2020 will continue for more than half of 2022. The world, regardless of national borders, must seek effective methods to meet our common challenges. But even if the &quot;national boundary&quot; fails to provide the necessary protection in the physical world, which is disturbing, we will also witness the explosion of opportunities in the digital world - especially the formation of a &quot;global community&quot;. 

With the dissolution of traditional national concepts, all parts of the world have accelerated the evolution of the digital world. The &quot;community&quot; thinking based on shared values is now growing stronger. 

In the past two years, we have witnessed similar cases, such as the &quot;MilkTeaAlliance&quot; (#MilkTeaAlliance) meme. Pearl milk tea) to show unity. In 2022, we will witness the evolution of a new generation: the distance is no longer based on kilometers, but based on the number of common experiences. 

The global community is about to change the existing international system. We will find ourselves in a new world: rules are no longer monopolized by countries and multinational organizations. Decentralized, non-political, non-state actors will play a more critical role. 

Taiwan’s digital democracy can be regarded as the forerunner of this new world. On the online platform &quot;join.gov.tw&quot;, anyone can initiate a proposal to the whole country without any political party endorsement. As long as there are proposals signed by more than 5,000 people, we will hold two face-to-face inter-ministerial collaboration meetings every month to discuss how to incorporate these ideas into government decision-making. In this way, even young people who do not have the right to vote can start campaigns and formulate new systems. 

Citizen science and technology will become more popular, speeding up the policy process that promotes the co-creation of the masses. The governance model initiated by the social sector and implemented by public and private cooperation will become the key to government transformation. In Taiwan, the production of mask maps allowed the public to know which stores still have masks in the early stages of the epidemic. The contact tracing and online vaccine appointment systems based on short messages are all the results of fully integrating open data under the cooperation of the community, the government, and enterprises. 

&quot;Public Infrastructure&quot; on the Internet will appear again. With the assistance of the citizen science and technology community, the scattered public opinion in society will be transformed into a driving force for co-creation of policies. Since social, political, and economic strategies must be constantly adjusted with the mutation of the virus, this momentum will become even more important. The government, society, and economic departments must form an alliance to meet the rapidly changing needs of the people in the shortest possible time. 

In 2022, the &quot;saving effort and peace of mind&quot; technology will continue to grow stronger, bringing more large-scale collaborations. Cyber attacks and disinformation continue to threaten global democracies, but Taiwan will continue to share our experience and show how to use &quot;fast, fair, and interesting&quot; tactics to combat the harm of the epidemic and disinformation. Allies who have seen a little bit of the same will also come forward and work together to build a resilient global community. 

 <div style="position:relative;padding-top:max(60%,326px);height:0;width:100%"><iframe sandbox="allow-top-navigation allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation allow-downloads allow-scripts allow-same-origin allow-popups allow-modals allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox" allowfullscreen="true" style="position:absolute;border:none;width:100%;height:100%;left:0;right:0;top:0;bottom:0;" src="https://e.issuu.com/embed.html?d=ww2022&hideIssuuLogo=true&pageNumber=1&u=pdis.tw"></iframe></div> 
