---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Democracy Summit: State Statement"
  excerpt: "Our democracies must trust our citizens and invest in civic infrastructure in the digital field."
  image: "/assets/imgs/thumbnail-20211210.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "社會創新"
    - "青年參與"
---


Ladies and gentlemen, and friends with non-binary genders: Good local time! 

I am Tang Feng, a number of political commissars in Taiwan, and I am honored to represent Taiwan in the Democracy Summit together with the ambassador to the United States, Xiao Meiqin. 

In 1996, after a decade of stable democratization, Taiwan held its first direct presidential election in history. This was an important achievement. By 2014, Taiwan’s democracy had matured, and the peaceful occupation of the National Assembly laid the foundation for subsequent political reforms. At the same time, it also set off a wave of youth actions and citizen participation in politics. 

As Taiwan’s democracy is in the ascendant, we have always stood firmly at the forefront of the global fight against authoritarianism, and we have also played a leading role in promoting global freedom, democracy and human rights. 

During the epidemic, authoritarian governments everywhere rationalized human rights violations in the name of public health and collective interests, and global democracy showed signs of regression. However, in Taiwan, we can control the epidemic without shutting down the city, and we can defeat false messages without taking off the shelves. 

For Taiwan, democracy is not only "entrusted by the people," but also "in cooperation with the people." Taiwan’s effective anti-epidemic measures, including mask distribution and newsletters, are all developed by civil society first, and then the government and enterprises will work together to increase the rate. This "citizen, government, and private sector" partnership is a model we are proud of and want to share with you. 

For example, the Taiwanese government supports international media and non-governmental organizations to station in Taiwan. In the past two years, it has assisted more than 50 foreign journalists to come to Taiwan, including American media who were forced to leave under pressure from Beijing. We also welcome non-governmental organizations to set up offices in Taiwan. Recently, high-profile organizations that have come to Taiwan to set up sites include the "International Democracy Association" and the "International Republic Institute" headquartered in the United States. 

Taiwan has responded to the call of the United States, pledged to fund the "Global Anti-Corruption Group", and has the willingness and ability to contribute to the "Public Media International Fund." The two multilateral initiatives focused on anti-corruption and countering false information, respectively, are in line with the goals of this summit. 

Taiwan will work hard to fulfill our promise through the "Global Cooperation and Training Framework (GCTF)". Under this structure, Taiwan and countries with similar ideas, such as the United States, Japan, and Australia, jointly hold workshops on important international issues such as anti-corruption, media literacy, and women's empowerment. It is shown that #StrongerTogether is not only a social media label, but also the unshakable nature of belief in the free world, that is, democracy can fulfill its promises. 

 "I don't believe in enough, but I don't believe it." Our democracies must trust our citizens and invest in civic infrastructure in the digital field. This is the best and the only way to protect and promote our shared value. Today's summit is a perfect platform for democracies from all over the world to come together to explore ways of cooperation. I look forward to exchanging opinions with you all. 

Thank you all. I wish endless prosperity and prosperity. 
