---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Every step to the future"
  excerpt: "In my opinion, \"mutual trust\" will be the key to allowing Taiwan to maintain a normal life."
  image: "/assets/imgs/447b953ea7d7b2f775804a75463a772814ab0f85.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


On the last day of 2020, Taiwan will usher in the coldest New Year’s Eve in 16 years. With a body temperature of nearly zero, many people are welcoming 2021 with a cold wind. 

For the whole world, the cold winter caused by the new crown virus lasted for a whole year, and "#Lockdown" became the recognized representative word of 2020. As of January 15, 2021, the number of confirmed cases worldwide has exceeded 90 million. 

Now in 2021, there are still turmoil all over the world, and the speed of virus mutation is even harder to predict. After experiencing 253 days of zero local cases, Taiwan is also facing the challenge of a new wave of viruses. In the long winter night before the end, apart from the government's implementation of epidemic prevention measures and the concerted efforts of all people to prevent the epidemic, in my opinion, "mutual trust" will be the key to allowing Taiwan to maintain a normal life. 

As everyone knows, when Taiwan implemented a quota purchase system for masks last year, the Health and Welfare Department of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Welfare collaborated with friends in the g0v community to develop a corresponding open data application through visual maps and chat robots. , Voice assistants and other multiple channels, successfully let friends in need find out where to buy and supply and demand. 

This is not a special way of cooperation born because of the epidemic. Incorporating people's opinions into policies and cooperating with non-governmental communities is already the daily routine of Taiwan's official culture. 

For example, in June 2019, Taiwan proposed an independent research and development [Open Government National Action Plan] at the OGP Summit (https://www.ndc.gov.tw/Content_List.aspx?n=0C5AB1D0FA5B64B8) After that, for nearly one and a half years, the National Development Council and various relevant ministries will use the Join platform to solicit opinions from the public and invite stakeholders to participate in the meeting. They propose to include "promoting the openness of information and information", There are a total of 19 proposals for commitments in the five major areas of "Expanding Public Participation Mechanisms", "Increasing Gender and Ethnic Inclusive Dialogues", "Implementing Clean Governance" and "Implementing Money Laundering Prevention Systems. Starting in 2021, these contents will enter an important implementation and evaluation stage. 

Opening up the government is a long-term accumulation of work that requires dripping water and rocks. Therefore, the Rescue Action by Youth (RAY) government website project initiated by our office, gathers 30 young students to review and reform the government's digital services. The fourth session (RAY 4.0) was combined with the National Development Conference "UCD Workshop" in the summer of last year and collaborated with seven government agencies that wish to improve their website services. 

Through this project, students can have an in-depth understanding of the challenges faced by government agencies, and provide a digital service that meets the user experience and agency needs. The agency colleagues can also better understand how to plan digital services from the user's perspective . Several agencies, including the Youth Department of the Ministry of Education, will invite students to join the ranks of the actual website based on the results of the students' projects. 

From the previous examples, we can see that in addition to the activation and experimentation within government departments, the creativity and contribution of civil society are even more important. We are also committed to creating connections, so that friends in the social sector can spread the achievements of social innovations, and then work with friends who are aspiring to build a vision for the future. Take the annual social innovation event-the Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Summit as an example. Under the influence of the epidemic, full digitization will be attempted for the first time in 2020. In addition to watching forum speeches through online live broadcast, it also uses 2D games to integrate traditional The social innovation market is virtualized, and anyone can learn about different social innovation organizations through gaming experience. 

The innovative approach of the 2020 Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Summit not only allows us to see the infinite possibilities of digital curation, but also becomes an important milestone in the social innovation world. On this basis, the 2021 summit will combine the physical and Online, with "[investment in Asia](https://apsis.tw/)" as the main axis, a new Asia-Pacific social innovation platform was created. 

In the new year, the earth is still facing many tests, whether it is the ecological engineering within the government or the ecological construction of the social sector, every attempt is a valuable experience. Therefore, in the coming year, I will introduce Taiwan’s achievements in opening up the government, social innovation and youth affairs on the World English website. This is because the Taiwan experience has shown me the most important enlightenment in the world: as long as we are not afraid of making mistakes and have the courage to create different experiences together, every step we take will become a part of the future. 
