---
  layout: "post"
  title: "1922 Vaccine Reservation System"
  excerpt: "The 1922 vaccine appointment platform is divided into four steps: willingness registration, SMS notification, appointment vaccination and vaccination."
  image: "https://cdn-cw-english.cwg.tw/ckeditor/202107/ckeditor-60f4eac951900.png"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新、開放政府"
---


After the national epidemic alert was raised to the third level on May 19, for two months, everyone has complied with the relevant epidemic prevention regulations. Starting from June 25, the number of new confirmed cases in a single day in Taiwan has dropped to Two digits. A few days ago, in addition to extending the third-level alert to July 26, the command center also announced a number of appropriate de-binding measures to avoid fatigue from the epidemic, and also prepare in advance for the complete lifting of the alert. 

The key to returning to a normal life is the popularity of the vaccine delivery rate. According to expert assessments, at least 60% to 70% of the people have received the complete COVID-19 vaccine injection, and the effect of herd immunity will appear. For this reason, the Executive Yuan has developed the "1922 COVID-19 Public Vaccine Booking Platform" after considering the status of the vaccines already administered and the number of vaccines that are about to arrive, and after meeting with the county and city governments. 

1922 Vaccine Appointment Platform is divided into four steps: willingness registration, SMS notification, appointment vaccination and vaccination. 

All people over the age of 18 who are willing to vaccinate go to the website 1922.gov.tw, enter their ID/residence card number, health insurance card number, mobile phone number, the administrative region they wish to vaccinate, and the type of vaccine. If the registered age and qualifications are met, and the number of vaccinations is sufficient, 1922 will be notified by SMS. 

The reason for adopting "register first, then make an appointment" is that there are currently two different vaccines, AZ and Modena, in Taiwan, and the follow-up vaccines will arrive at different times. The willingness to register first can accurately grasp the preferences of the people. When the amount of vaccine arrival is enough to cover the number of registered people, the registered people will be notified to make an appointment. In this way, we can ensure that each dose of vaccine can be administered effectively and in a timely manner. 

In addition, the order of willingness registration does not affect the order of vaccination. As long as the willingness registration is completed during the system opening period, you will definitely be eligible for appointment notification. This setting is to avoid affecting the rights of the people due to ignorance of Internet use. If the registration time is used as the basis, it may give people who are more knowledgeable about using digital tools take the lead. Therefore, in the future, when the government informs the appointment, it will follow the principle of "growth and child order" and arrange the order of beatings based on the year of birth. 

In addition to the nationals, when we initially designed the COVID-19 publicly funded vaccine booking platform, we included the residence permit as identification. The English version of the website is now online. Foreigners and legal immigrants who hold residence permits and health insurance cards Workers and new residents can be vaccinated as long as they register on the platform with their residence permit number and health insurance card number. Even foreign friends who do not have a health insurance card can register through the relevant services of the vaccine reservation platform such as Taipei Pass. 

During the time when the people of Taiwan are working together to fight the epidemic, in addition to the vaccines originally ordered by the government, we have also received unreserved assistance from many friends, including the US government’s donation of 2.5 million doses of Moderna vaccine and the Japanese government’s donation3 The batch of 3.37 million doses of AZ vaccine, the Lithuanian government donated 20,000 doses of AZ vaccine, and the Slovak government donated 10,000 doses of vaccine, so that Taiwanese people can return to normal life and open the last mile. 

The vaccine reservation platform that takes into account digital equality, the will of the people and the human rights of foreigners is the concrete realization of Taiwan to ensure that these intentions are properly used. 
