---
  layout: "post"
  title: "How did the vaccine registration appointment platform come from?"
  excerpt: "The improvement of information technology is based on seeing needs and fully communicating. \"People-oriented\" service design can strengthen the effectiveness of public services and improve social resilience."
  image: "/assets/imgs/ce9565fdfea3a87c22a1c77e3d67cb7c564611da.png"
  author: "唐鳳、詹壹雯"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "政策溝通"
    - "服務設計"
---


Since the COVID-19 vaccine was imported in March this year, to encourage people to vaccinate, the government has introduced a "vaccine fake", and the Executive Yuan and commanders have also taken the lead in vaccinating. As the epidemic heats up since May, vaccination has instantly become a national topic. Based on the experience of pre-purchasing masks last year, the "vaccine registration appointment platform" construction plan came into being. 

The birth of the platform is a process of repeatedly adjusting decisions and requirements. The initial use scenario envisaged was to invite the public to make an appointment first and then administer the vaccine under the appropriate supply of vaccines across the country, so that each dose of vaccine can be injected in the shortest time. However, due to the influence of international factors, the vaccine import schedule is often difficult to grasp, and the effective use of existing vaccines is even more important. Therefore, there is a procedure for people to "register" to ensure accurate distribution. 

In order to be considerate of friends who are not familiar with the Internet, we have planned a channel for holding health insurance cards to make appointments at major supermarkets, pharmacies, and health centers, and also coordinated with local civil affairs colleagues to provide telephone support. During the design process, we found colleagues from the front-line health bureau, hoping that this system can handle issues such as "vaccine distribution, inventory control, site diversion" and other issues; the public’s choice of appointment location also includes "unlimited household registration, "Sort by distance traveled" and other detailed expectations. 

At the same time, considering that all regions have been vaccinating elders for influenza vaccination over the years, they have already had a set of experience in issuing notices. In order to avoid affecting the existing order of dossier, we finally decided: wait until the age of sixty-five years old. After the retired elderly have been vaccinated, they will "change the track" to the new system to reduce the burden of the first-line epidemic prevention work. 

During this period of preparation to go online, it is undeniable that the needs of all parties are still constantly changing, such as making appointments for funding, or suggestions for lowering age. Fortunately, the core question of "how to increase the vaccination rate?" As a calibration line, all kinds of opinions are reconciled so that the platform does not deviate from its original intention. 

After repeated discussions with the heads of counties and cities, and colleagues, we held four joint video conferences to incorporate the practical needs of local governments for registration, distribution, appointment, and delivery into the system functions; five sessions were also held. For the education and training of front-line staff, everyone can overcome the cost of learning together. Thanks to the concerted efforts of everyone, the platform was finally launched in early July. So far, nearly 10 million people have registered. 

Public servants value "public opinion", and open government is more happy to see "civil power". We are trying our best to improve the user interface and process problems that the people continue to report to improve the efficiency of the platform. Therefore, do not think that your own opinions are small and cannot change the status quo; the courage to ask questions is the beginning of change. Finally, don't forget: "If you wish to register, fight at your turn", to set up the line of defense, you are indispensable. 
