---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Cooling system, heating service"
  excerpt: "For each specific suggestion, we carefully evaluate and adjust to make the vaccination process smoother."
  image: "/assets/imgs/coffee-1974841_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭美琪"
  category: "blog"
  tags: []
---


International rush to buy and geopolitical situation, every vaccine in Taiwan is hard to come by. Unlike previous vaccinations, this time we not only need to consider the public’s acceptance, willingness, time, and location of each label, but also evaluate the time, quantity, and brand of vaccines that are most conducive to the overall epidemic prevention. layout. 

The "1922 Vaccine Registration and Appointment Platform" launched in July was built with such complex considerations. Different from influenza vaccine, it is better to plan and order the vaccines according to the household registration. The platform must be based on the type, quantity, and brand of the vaccine. At the same time, the public’s acceptance of the vaccine brand, the willingness to administer the vaccine, the time and location of the vaccine must be considered. Can be accurately and effectively allotted. 

The design framework of the platform is to seamlessly connect the demand side and the supply side, so that each precious vaccine can be vaccinated in the shortest time. Therefore, when planning the system, we pay special attention to a few core principles: 

- First of all, we must try our best to meet the implementation needs of local governments. In order to avoid conflicts between the needs of local governments, we must have multiple dialogues with local governments beforehand. , Reach a consensus. 
- Secondly, the public must be able to fully express their wishes for vaccine brands, time and location, and more importantly, keep room for adjustment at any time as different brands arrive. 
- In addition, for people with different places of work, residence, and household registration, it is even more important to avoid the risk of infection caused by the travel between the north and the south due to vaccination. 

How to balance these principles is indeed a challenge. Fortunately, the local government has fully mobilized and cooperated with measures such as telephone appointments, registration at the counter, and village and neighborhood chief officers to assist the people in making appointments, etc., to notify the people as much as they can and successfully complete the mission. 

As the volume of vaccine arrivals becomes more and more stable, the Central Epidemic Command Center has begun to expand the scope of vaccinations, opening legal suspensions, residences but without health insurance cards for vaccinations for foreigners, and plans to gradually open them to those under the age of 18 Teenagers, as well as those with household registration without health insurance status. 

Under this policy, the system data stream incorporates cross-organization data such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Immigration, and the Ministry of the Interior, and is integrated into a single window for the first time, using a unified certificate number, passport number, and entry and exit permit number to log in. Daily statistics are also used in the form of [Open Information](https://data.cdc.gov.tw/dataset/covid-19-vaccine-booking-waiting-counts) for immediate reference from all walks of life. 

What makes us happy is that the local health bureaus and civil affairs bureaus have responded one after another that the system on the road can indeed improve the time and manpower of sending notifications from door to door when vaccines were administered in the past. Not only can it avoid accidental mixing, but it can also accurately deploy the manpower and material resources of the firing station, so that the original vaccination rate of about 40-50% at the firing station has been greatly increased to more than 90%. 

It is undeniable that in the actual situation, the central government has continued to receive responses from the frontline colleagues of local governments. In the face of people who have received the first dose before the system goes online, they need to make repeated appointments and it takes time and effort to compile the roster. The problem: Many people have reported that it is not easy to understand the willingness to register and make appointments for vaccines, and they have put forward ideas for improvement. For each specific suggestion, we carefully evaluate and adjust to make the vaccination process smoother. 

The cold and hard system, due to the execution of people, we also receive heart-warming responses. For example, many children actively assist their parents to register online, make appointments, and string together family links. This has also become a topic that is not often discussed between parents and children. . Although the epidemic forces us to restrict our environment, it also allows us to see and cherish our relatives and friends around us again. I look forward to the joint efforts of all walks of life, the epidemic will be brought under control soon, so that everyone can resume normal activities, face to face chats, have dinner together, and enjoy the happiness of interpersonal relationships. 
