---
---

---
layout: post
title: When a "fava bean disease patient" meets a "camphor pill manufacturer"
excerpt: After the collaboration meeting, the Environmental Protection Agency discussed with the industry and the county and city governments to determine the public agency Disable naphthalene pills in public toilets. 
image: /assets/imgs/19df87635a2d87133ee29362a0c6295ba05ef77c.jpeg
author: Tang Feng, Xu Enen
category: blog
tags: [Open Government][Collaboration Meeting]
---


From this year Beginning in February, the Environmental Protection Agency has required public toilets across the country to avoid using "naphthalene pills" as environmental repellents. Public toilets that do not meet the requirements will be tracked and degraded. 

This seemingly small move has actually affected more than 40,000 public toilets in counties and cities across the country. Behind it, a proposal from patients with faba bean disease on the Internet: "Prohibit synthetic mothballs that can induce hemolysis in patients with faba bean disease and may cause cancer." 

Fava bean disease, the official name is "G-6-PD deficiency". The red blood cells of the patient are easily destroyed by certain substances. The most common prevention is "cannot eat broad beans", nor can you ingest products containing "naphthalene", such as "synthetic mothballs" used to repel insects in public toilets and closets. In severe cases, it can lead to hemolysis and anemia. 

The health risks of patients are hidden in the tiny details of daily life. In spontaneous online societies, the parents of patients call their children "silkworm babies." The most frequently discussed topic is to "notify" risky products and places. 

In response to private proposals, we held a collaborative meeting. The Toxic Chemistry Bureau of the Environmental Protection Agency, which is in charge of environmental medications, interviewed various naphthalene pills manufacturers during the preparatory work. According to the industry, the product has long been compliant with the regulations and properly labeled, and patients usually know how to avoid it. If it is really banned, for some industry that uses naphthalene pills as the main product, “just prepare to close the factory now. !"

In order to avoid the confrontational atmosphere hindering the communication of the meeting, we especially confirmed with the Chemistry Bureau the strength of the wording of the briefing, highlighting "Today will not make a strong conclusion, but let everyone discuss it first." During the meeting, the National Health Administration of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and medical experts were also invited to explain that although most patients with faba bean disease and their families are aware of the need to avoid substances that trigger symptoms, the regulations for the use of environmental drugs are still worthy of discussion. 

Finally, the proponent expressed that he understood the impact of the appeal and accepted a compromise approach. "Fava bean disease is a bit like the physically and mentally disabled. Because naphthalene pills are commonly used, we can't go to the toilet, nor can we go to many shops or public offices, and we can't use many resources," he said. "We just want to be like ordinary people. "

Indeed, patients who are worried about the threat of naphthalene pills and actively avoid public toilets actually have the effect of being "excluded", which hinders the principle of "equal accessibility" of public facilities. 

After the collaboration meeting, the Environmental Protection Agency communicated with the industry to make the product labeling more visible; after discussing with the county and city governments, it was decided to ban naphthalene pills in public agencies and public toilets. At the same time, it promotes alternative products that do not contain naphthalene in mild language. As far as the industry is concerned, ordinary consumers can still buy naphthalene pills to maintain market survival. 

Let the opposing parties participate in the collaborative meeting. Instead of asking for immediate and compulsory conclusions, let the true stories of various characters put together, and on the basis of mutual listening and dialogue, each step back solution can be reached. Not only can the rights and interests of patients be promoted, but the industry has not vigorously rebounded, and the policy can be implemented smoothly. Opening up the government, after time brewing, will eventually bear fruit. 


