---
  layout: "post"
  title: "1922 SMS Real Link System"
  excerpt: "In addition to providing rapid and accurate registration of people, the \"message system\" can effectively reduce the risk of contact. The most important thing is that epidemic investigators can accurately grasp the footprints of confirmed persons and contacts."
  image: "https://cdn-cw-english.cwg.tw/ckeditor/202104/ckeditor-608298261dcba.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


Now that the world epidemic has not stopped, the Taiwan epidemic has also undergone new changes. We use digital tools to connect with the public and private sectors to meet difficulties. 

In response to the successive occurrence of cases and clusters of infections of unknown origin in various places, the command center announced on May 19 that the national epidemic alert was raised to the third level until May 28. All leisure and entertainment venues were completely closed, and dining establishments Must comply with the "real connection system" and social distancing. In order for the epidemic investigation to quickly and effectively confirm the footprint of the confirmed person, and to prevent the path of large-scale community infection, the actual linkage system is the most important first line of defense under this wave of vigilance. 

In order to protect privacy, Taiwan's citizen science and technology community jointly proposed a solution. On the g0v channel, many designers of the current implementation system actively discuss how to integrate the current implementation system of multi-use paper or self-made electronic forms. Three days before the nation’s promotion to the third level of alert, the "g0v Newsletter Real Link" has become one of the most recognized proposals in the 
 community. At the same time, the Kaohsiung City Government has also designed a QR Code system that can be used in all venues, which is applicable to both government agencies and night market vendors. 

Inspired by Mayor Chen and g0v community proposals, we collaborated with Chunghwa Telecom (1922), Customs and Trade Corporation (eMask), HTC DeepQ (Disease Butler), Taiwan Network Certification Corporation (TWID) and major telecoms Business, developed the "1922 SMS Real Link System". Any kind of agency, unit, 
 individual business person can enter the eMask website and apply for a QR Code containing the "location code". This location code is randomly generated by the system and is only used to record the venue, and does not contain business registration or location information. Visitors do not need to fill in the information, as long as they scan through their mobile phones, a text message containing the location code will appear. As long as the receiving number is 1922, they can be sent. After the text message screen is confirmed by the venue staff, they can enter the store premises. 

In addition to providing rapid and accurate registration of people, the "messaging system" can effectively reduce the risk of contact. The most important thing is that epidemic investigators can accurately grasp the footprints of confirmed persons and contacts. Once the epidemic investigator knows a confirmed person, they only need to provide the mobile phone number of the confirmed person to the mobile phone company to which the mobile phone belongs. Then, the mobile phone company compares the codes of the relevant places that the mobile phone number has visited within 28 days. Epidemic investigators can then hand over the location codes of these time zones to the five major telecom companies to send contact notices, reminding them of the mobile phone numbers to go to these locations at the same time. 

In addition, the "Newsletter System" complies with the "COVID-19 New Life Campaign: Guidelines for Real-Link System Measures" and obtains the least personal data in accordance with the principle of least infringement. The text message sent by the public to 1922 only contains the "location code", "mobile phone number" and "time when the phone number enters the place". The content of the text message will be stored in the carrier of the mobile phone and will only be used for notification after the epidemic and the future. 28 days It will be deleted later. It is convenient to track the footprint of the epidemic, which can ensure the accuracy of information while taking into account efficiency, and also protect personal privacy. These are the core concepts of the "SMS system". 

In the past, Taiwan was fully defensive and contributed to the world's solutions to many problems; now, Taiwanese face challenges, continue to uphold the spirit of openness and cooperation, and build a solid protection chain with resilience. 
