---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Development of the \"Digital Vaccine Passport\" platform"
  excerpt: "You do not need to install a dedicated app, you can download the digital certificate directly from the website."
  image: "/assets/imgs/airplane-6674689.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭美琪"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


Wearing masks, disinfecting hands, taking body temperature, implementing system, and vaccinating. With the active cooperation of the whole people, the number of confirmed cases in Taiwan has gradually decreased. With the stable arrival of vaccines, "70% of the first dose and 30% of the second dose" have successfully reached the standard at the end of October. After the vaccine was given, the people began to care: When will countries be able to open their borders and everyone can go abroad freely? 

In order to shorten the time for entry isolation and quarantine, countries have begun to plan "vaccine passports" to post vaccination, inspection, or recovery records after illness, and also open a new mode of international exchange permits. The "Health Information Digital Certificate Issuing Platform", which will be launched at the end of the year, is precisely to establish a credible vaccination certificate platform for people to use abroad. 

Because there is no global common standard for "vaccine passport", the entry regulations of different countries are not the same. Although the platform has been developed, there is still the last mile. It is necessary to conduct bilateral negotiations through diplomatic units one by one and obtain recognition from each country. . 

In order to save time and effort, as much as possible to synchronize with the international community, Taiwan’s first batch of digital certificates issued adopts the EU DCC standard launched by the European Union on July 1 this year and is used in conjunction with EU 27 countries and non-EU 16 countries. , Is currently the most common international standard. 

Compared with the EU's approach, my country's platform has two differences:

First of all, the EU is usually a hospital or public agency at the vaccination end. After the public applies, they will issue digital certificates one by one. In Taiwan, the epidemic command center, combined with the existing NIIS system of the vaccination database, will complete the batch of records of the beaters and issue QR Code vouchers, which can be obtained upon application by the public, greatly shortening the waiting time. 

In addition, the platform does not need to install a dedicated App, you can download the digital certificate directly from the website, and show it or print it for use at any time. The verifier also simultaneously adopts PWA (Progressive Web Application) technology, which is not only compatible with more devices, but also saves development and update maintenance costs. 

In the post-epidemic era, global cross-border flows are gradually recovering. For Taiwan, which takes international business and trade as its important economic lifeline and has a huge amount of overseas travel, holding a "digital vaccine passport" is undoubtedly the first step to reconnect with the world. 
