---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Collaboration with \"lightweight form and concentrated connotation\""
  excerpt: "Reducing the additional administrative work of the ministries and committees can make the cooperative meeting mechanism run for a long time."
  image: "/assets/imgs/57076c17521f19be6dce41548c27721fb9cbab86.png"
  author: "許恩恩"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "協作會議"
    - "公共政策網路參與平台"
    - "提點子"
---


"A young age who is struggling with illness!" This is the subscript of the book "We are all sick". With "young patients" as a self-identified community, there is no registered organization identity, but there are more than 20,000 followers. 

They are [The 83rd Collaboration Meeting of Open Government](https://sayit.pdis.nat.gov.tw/2020-12-01-%e9%96%8b%e6%94%be%e6 %94%bf%e5%ba%9c%e7%ac%ac83%e6%ac%a1%e5%8d%94%e4%bd%9c%e6%9c%83%e8%ad%b0) group. Because they are "netizens", not "patient groups" in the traditional normative sense. Through the Join platform as a key, the National Health Insurance Agency opened the door to communication with this vibrant community. 

### Alternative "Patient Information Meeting"

This is a long-named but relatively light-weight meeting: "Cancer Immunization Drug Delivery Patient Information Meeting and the 83rd Open Government Collaboration Meeting". Like the origins of many collaborative meetings, the "point-up" function from the National Development Council's public policy network participation platform has been signed by 5,000 people through proposals. After the PO monthly meeting was opened to government contacts by various ministries and committees, they were voted Elected to cooperate with PDIS. 

Most of the collaborative meetings we hold will have a rich preparatory process, and a large-scale on-site hosting and technical form. This meeting only retained the core open elements, and was more handled in the form of "traditional administrative procedures"-that is, "explanation meetings." 

### Careful preparation, not for large-scale, but to communicate core values 

This collaborative meeting also went through several preliminary procedures: the ministry contacted the sponsor, working meeting, and pre-meeting. Colleagues from the National Health Insurance Department are saying ["The budget for new cancer immunization drugs should be deployed ahead of time, and the budget should be adequately compiled, so that "relaxation of the payment of new immunization drugs" is a visible future and hope for cancer patients! 」](https://join.gov.tw/idea/detail/819baa50-d84c-4a10-b012-40bfac120d6f) After the joint signing was completed, following the accumulated mechanism in the past few years, the proposal community was contacted for the first Interview to clarify the demands. Take this opportunity to face-to-face with the proposer and explain the current situation of the policy. 

The National Health Insurance Agency and PDIS will soon be at a working meeting to jointly confirm the goal of this meeting, which is to first explain the special procedures for "IO drugs". Because this drug is quite "new," the cognitive level of basic information and methods must be aligned first before more detailed content can be discussed. 

At present, in the "Medicine Co-planning Meeting", the official drug decision-making channel, only two patient groups are present. Although the National Health Insurance Department and the Center for Medical Inspection (CDE) have a "patient opinion sharing platform", it is not conducive Collect comprehensive and complete patient opinions. The establishment of trust between the NHS and patients is the main purpose of this meeting. 

Therefore, in the process of organizing this "explanation meeting/collaboration meeting", PDIS offered tools to open up government values, while patients also raised concerns about identity disclosure. Finally, the organizer's Health Insurance Department had different interests The original intention of the group's communication model and trust establishment, so that the recruitment, video recording, recording, and data sending of the conference participants have become an important step for all parties to align their values. 


### Meeting scene

On the day of the meeting, since he also has the identity of the Executive Yuan to open the government collaboration meeting, the PDIS host first asked the head of the Health Insurance Department to open the meeting, and then introduce the existing collaboration mechanism and the meeting Regarding the "open and transparent" principle and adjustment practices. Then, after the briefing explanations and preliminary responses from the department and the medical inspection center, it was a comprehensive discussion between the sponsor and the netizens present. 

Because it has been positioned as a "lightweight" meeting in form, there is not enough time. Only the hosting technology and Slido anonymous questioning tool are used to advance the Q&A rhythm. In meetings where patients and their families are the main components, the anonymous questioning tool has played a great role. 

"Hopefully, it will be better for future meetings to have a third-party host role, because there is a gap in the power and resource control between the public and the government. We don't know where to start." After the meeting , The participants gave such feedback during the interview. 

Whether it is the on-site hosting to assist in the comprehensive arrangement and clarification, or the video and verbatim manuscripts as the text for tracking the responsibility of the lesson, it is our expectation that the Ministry will take an extra step in the "existing administrative procedures". The ministry will receive PDIS support, reduce additional administrative work, and make the collaborative meeting mechanism more effective for a long time. 

### Innovative flexibility: Lightweight in form and concentrated in substance 

In most of the past collaboration meetings, we emphasized the alignment of information, data collection and translation of various ministries; after interviews with multiple stakeholders, the results were The core issues for multiple parties to sit down and discuss; the different discussion methods and tool lists of the audience and the group, and the POs of different ministries and meetings are invited to be the moderators of the group discussions; and there are transparent records of live broadcast or video and verbatim drafts. 

These tools correspond to the four core values of open government. At the same time, we have always emphasized that tools are not used for the sake of use. It is the original intention to build mutual trust between the government and the private sector based on the needs of users. 

The significance of innovation is not only to change and create new forms, but also to break through the limitations of existing experience, incorporate more voices that have not been heard before, and make public policies more in line with the needs of all parties, more feasible and more Moving forward in a sustainable direction. 

Simplify the complexity, this collaborative meeting is compatible with existing administrative procedures, and flexibly uses the extracted "digital" and "open" elements. It is a "lightweight" meeting and at the same time "concentrated in substance" "The charm of open government's practical experience. 


