---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Social innovation cooperation, towards net zero"
  excerpt: "Emotional communication before collaboration on substantive issues becomes even more indispensable after it becomes the new normal on the long-distance line."
  image: "https://cdn-cw-english.cwg.tw/ckeditor/202104/ckeditor-608298261dcba.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


This year’s Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Summit was successfully concluded on April 10th and 11th. Among them, the third "Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award" also took this opportunity to present awards to ten winning social innovation cases . 

The Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award launched in 2019 aims to encourage social innovation organizations in the Asia-Pacific region to work together and connect multiple stakeholders. The jury is based on four aspects: influence, diversity, innovation, and sustainability. Selecting bright cases will not only make new solutions to social or environmental problems more widely known in the world, but also through awards can encourage cases to be replicated or spread to other countries in the Asia-Pacific region, so that social influence can be scaled up. 

After three years of handling, the Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award has accumulated nearly 250 cooperation models to promote environmental sustainability, economic inclusiveness, and social prosperity in all parts of the Asia-Pacific region. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to spread, this year’s awards will use "New Reality" as the theme of the jury's special award to explore how social innovation cooperation can find innovative ways to sustain business. 

This Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award received a total of 77 application cases across 13 countries including Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore, Cambodia, Laos, and India. The jury came from Taiwan, Thailand, and Indonesia. , The United States and other places have long-term investment in social innovation senior partners. As the convener of the jury, in the process, I got to know many amazing partnerships in many regions. 

In order to achieve the goal of net zero emissions, some partners use the power of science and technology to allow the public to participate in the change in the simplest way. For example, Taiwan’s social innovation organization "Sunshine Volt House" has created Taiwan’s first green energy crowdfunding platform. The platform matches public funds and suitable rooftop resources. People can subscribe for a solar panel with only NT$15,000. . And through the "green energy public welfare model", Sunshine Volta also can match companies and the public to build solar power plants for non-profit organizations. Together with the government's "Taiwan Power Purchase and Sale System" that encourages the development of renewable energy, it can provide community organizations. A stable source of income for 20 years. 

Since the launch of Sunvolt Home, more than 20,000 people and 7 companies have joined the ranks of fund-raising to build more than 200 solar power plants. Among them, there are 12 communities that serve disadvantaged groups such as the elderly and the physically and mentally disabled. The organization benefits. Because of this innovative method of motivating the public to participate in renewable energy, Sungrow has won the "Social Prosperity Award" of this year's Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award. 

Also in Asia, through the "Nepal's Non-fired Bricks" promoted by the Korean company InnoCSR Co., Ltd, we have seen another wonderful case of transnational development of innovative technologies that promoted changes in traditional production models. In Nepal, due to the earthquake reconstruction related projects in 2015 and the recent high economic growth, the local demand for bricks is very large, at least 5 billion bricks are needed a year, and the burning of bricks causes serious air pollution. 

InnoCSR through the research and development of brick manufacturing technology that does not need to be fired, not only effectively reduces the average 3,000 tons of CO2 and other waste gas emissions from each brick yard, but also greatly reduces labor costs and improves manufacturing efficiency and quality. In addition, InnoCSR also harmonizes More than 100 local non-profit organizations related to brick burning work together to promote new production technologies and develop training schools to promote a better working environment and economic income for workers. At present, many manufacturers have been attracted to switch to this technology to achieve the effect of protecting Nepal's environment. Not only has it been recognized by this environmental sustainability award, it will also be promoted to other countries in the future. 

InnoCSR and Sunshine Volt’s practices, let us see that in today's climate change is becoming more severe, social innovation is not only the investment of certain people or organizations, but the entire society covers the general public, enterprises, and non-profit organizations. The government, the government, etc. are all involved in the paradigm transfer, and at the same time, the change takes place, and everyone needs to be gathered. Each of us can become a part of the solution. 
