---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Digital democracy in Taiwan"
  excerpt: "Gather the power of everyone to create a tough and tolerant Indo-Pacific region."
  image: "/assets/imgs/flower-field-gabaf6792c_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "社會創新"
---


The epidemic has conducted stress tests on democracies around the world, and the results seem to be unsatisfactory. Including the Indo-Pacific region, the plight of many democracies is fully revealed: falling into an authoritarian model, or struggling for meaning. This does not seem surprising. After all, the world did not put much effort into "democracy", a system that can be traced back to ancient Greece, to keep it up with the times. 

In contrast, Taiwan has demonstrated how to use citizen participation to strengthen and deepen democracy in the Indo-Pacific region. For democracy to continue to grow strong, we must first re-empower the people and make the system more suitable for the world in which we live. Although it is often said that democracy in the Indo-Pacific region is retrogressive, we still have the opportunity to reverse the situation and create a more open and democratic region. 

Taiwan’s digital democratic transformation was completed in a single generation. After World War II, Taiwan transformed from a relatively pure agricultural society with the ruling party's authority to a country characterized by social, cultural, and political diversity. We held the first direct presidential election in 1996, just when the World Wide Web became universal. In Taiwan, the Internet and democracy have developed and spread simultaneously. 

Taiwan’s democratic revitalization ushered in a decisive moment in 2014, which was the birth of the Sunflower Student Movement. Half a million people took to the streets to protest the signing of an opaque cross-strait service trade agreement with Beijing. As the student movement spread across the country, millions of netizens responded online, and the people occupied Taiwan's Legislative Yuan to prevent the bill from proceeding. 

In the first few days, various rumors and false messages about the siege of the Legislative Yuan were spread. In order to ensure openness and transparency, I assisted in the establishment of a communication system. Many partners from the g0v zero-time government (decentralized citizen hacker group) participated in it. The occupied area and the neighboring streets are connected by a local network, and a projection screen is set up outside the courtyard to simultaneously broadcast the live situation in the courtyard. 

About three weeks later, after the government agreed to strengthen the legislative supervision of the service trade agreement, the Sunflower student movement successfully exited. This has successfully demonstrated a new governance model not only to Taiwan, but also to the world, that is, citizen gatherings, with the assistance of professional guides and the empowerment of citizens' technology, can lead to effective democratic actions. Today, the people of Taiwan understand that democracy, like any social technology, can be enriched with the joint efforts of the public. 

So how does the government contribute to such an outcome? The answer is that the integration of cross-departmental energy has become the driving force for policy innovation, and the concept of "cooperating with the people" can penetrate into the formulation of public policies. In other words, it is to release the inner power of democratic "crowdsourcing". The government should no longer seek to formulate policies from top to bottom and guide people’s access to public services. Instead, they should establish an ecosystem that is oriented to the needs of the people and solves problems through public-private-people partnerships (Public-Private-People partnerships). 

Taiwan continues to promote plans to encourage such partnerships. In its fourth year, the "Presidents Cup Hackathon" invites citizens from all over the world to use open data to propose solutions to global issues that are conducive to creating a sustainable world, such as energy conservation, smart citizens, and circular agriculture. The winning team is expected to be invited to participate in government projects, and the system developed may also receive assistance from the public sector and/or the private sector. 

Another democratic innovation in Taiwan is the "Public Policy Network Participation Platform" (join.gov.tw), which is a one-stop participation platform where people in Taiwan can make policy suggestions. As long as more than 5,000 people seconded, they can discuss how to incorporate proposals into policies through inter-ministerial collaboration meetings twice a month, ensuring that everyone can help formulate the agenda and participate in the government's decision-making process. In fact, more than a quarter of the proposals were made by young friends under the age of 18. For example, the proponent of restricting the use of plastic straws was only 17 years old. 

Taiwan has successfully combated the COVID-19 epidemic, and inter-departmental partnerships have also played an important role. At the beginning of 2020, there was a shortage of masks in Taiwan, which caused panic buying. The Taiwan government adopted real-name mask quota measures. However, despite the adoption of quota measures, the public will inevitably still need to go to the pharmacy to purchase, so we released an application programming interface (API) to provide the public with real-time mask stocks in specific locations. The mask map created by social entrepreneurs in cooperation with the g0v community came into being, which is a variety of interactive maps, telling the public where and how many masks there are. 

Similarly, the various measures to record contact information when entering and exiting public places in the early days also contributed to the development and deployment of the "1922 Newsletter System" in the shortest possible time. This intuitive, download-free APP design comes from g0v, which can easily complete the real connection registration, while taking into account privacy-anyone can find out whether they have been queried by the epidemic in the past 28 days by entering a phone number. 

From the early days of the Internet, active citizen hackers and open source engineers have actively participated in social issues, and are always ready to promote democracy and fight against authoritarianism. Taiwan has proved that by trusting the people and lowering the barriers to democratic participation, it can create innovations that stand the test of time. 

My solution to the Indo-Pacific region is very simple: instead of sitting, it is better to design a space where more people can participate. 

In the face of challenges that transcend borders, people from different fields must work together to gradually overcome all difficulties. In my opinion, Taiwan’s digital democracy is like a sunflower, and each contributor is a piece of petal, blooming and standing tall in Taiwan, becoming a forgiving and resilient Indo-Pacific vision. 
