---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Simple newsletter system that saves effort and peace of mind"
  excerpt: "Data access must be based on personal data to make a difference."
  image: "/assets/imgs/pinky-swear-329329_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
    - "開放政府"
---


Since its launch in May, the newsletter system has quickly become a part of the lives of Taiwanese. There is no need to install a new App, just scan the QR Code and send a short message, so that recording footprints through mobile phones has become an intuitive habit for most people when they enter and exit public places. 

The information obtained by the SMS system is stored in the telecommunications company to which each person's mobile phone number belongs. How can this information be properly used in the epidemic investigation work while ensuring the safety of personal information? To this end, the command center has built an "epidemic investigation assistance platform" that integrates functions such as hot spot maps, epidemic investigation trajectories, and short-message system and epidemic investigation inquiry, so that front-line epidemic investigation personnel can quickly grasp the possible impact of the epidemic. 

Take the [Public Information Access Record Query Service](https://sms.1922.gov.tw) under the SMS system as an example, because the epidemic investigators often need to check the footprint of a specific door number to confirm The scope of the epidemic may be affected. In order to let the public know whether their footprints are being used properly, they only need to enter the webpage and pass the mobile phone number authentication under their name, and then they can check the actual record of this number and whether they have been interrogated by the epidemic investigation personnel in the past 28 days. read. 

It is worth noting that when an epidemic investigator applies for a specific door number, he applies for the track record of that door number through the epidemic investigation assistance platform. After the record is obtained, it can only be checked, and the track record will not be kept. On the platform, the database of the epidemic investigation auxiliary platform will only record "which unit's epidemic investigation personnel checked when a certain mobile phone number". After 28 days, all these inquiry records will be deleted. 

The focus of this approach is to reflect the core concept of open government: to give accountability. 

On the other hand, when new challenges arise, we also improve in time. In June, when a judge was reviewing the criminal police station's search for ticket applications, he found that there were information on the short message system in the certificate, so he submitted the book to the newspaper and questioned its legitimacy. After discussion by all parties, the Ministry of Justice also explained: the SMS system is not a private communication, and it is not within the scope of access or monitoring by the Communication Security Supervision Law; telecommunications institutions and judicial organs will also take specific measures to exclude communication surveillance from touching the SMS communication. System of information. 

In the development of digital policy, personal information protection and information security have always been the focus of attention. In Taiwan, in addition to strictly restricting the scope of data use, we also allow the public to inquire about their own data. Collecting information from a personal perspective and focusing on citizen autonomy is the core concept of digital development: "Data access must be based on the basis for personal data to make a difference." 

Collect information in a convenient and safe way, and adhere to the principle of "give an account" when using information. Taiwan not only demonstrates what is time-saving and labor-saving and reassuring digital innovation, but also writes for the practice of digital epidemic prevention. Next milestone. 
