---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Digital collaboration, democratic innovation"
  excerpt: "The \"Taiwan Model\" shows the world the value of classical democracy in the digital age."
  image: null
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "社會創新"
    - "青年事務"
---


The COVID-19 epidemic has a profound impact on the world. The spread of false information brought about by the epidemic, anti-epidemic control measures, or even the monitoring disputes of authoritarian countries have not only caused widespread public anxiety and severely polarized speech, but also caused everyone to re-examine traditional government governance and policy decisions. Today, the cost of epidemic prevention and social problems brought about by the virus are still testing the crisis control capabilities of governments of various countries. 

In Taiwan, this pandemic has deepened the cooperation between public and private departments. Even though variant viruses are emerging in endlessly, the risk of the epidemic can still be effectively controlled without closing the city. 

This is because we have built a digital infrastructure for a long time, so that people can put forward and express their opinions on policy reform at any time in their daily lives. 

"1922 Newsletter System" is a clear example. In order to allow the epidemic investigation to quickly and effectively confirm the footprint of the confirmed case while protecting privacy, Taiwan's citizen science and technology community jointly proposed a solution. On the Slack channel of the g0v interim government, everyone was actively discussing how to integrate the existing multi-use paper or self-made electronic forms, and the "SMS system" soon became the most recognized proposal. 

Based on community discussions, we, together with major telecommunications companies, have developed the "1922 SMS Real Link System". As long as you scan the QRcode of the place and send the SMS to 1922, you can keep your travel records and prevent the epidemic. When necessary, investigators can access data from the system, and accurately compare the footprints of confirmed persons and contacts. 

From community discussion, development to official launch, the 1922 newsletter system was completed within a week. If there is no strong partnership between the public sector and the citizen community, all this cannot be so smooth. 

The link between the Taiwanese government and the citizen science and technology community is the result of the accumulation of cents. Since its establishment in 2012, the g0v zero-hour government has gradually developed into one of the world’s three largest open source citizen technology communities. Starting in 2017, the g0v community launched the "g0v Citizen Technology Innovation Award", which has the potential to help the public interest The community proposal puts more force into a new form of democracy. Inspired by the g0v grant, the Taiwanese government began to host the "Presidents Cup Hackathon" in 2018, opening up private experts and public servants to team up to reshape government services with hacker culture. 

For example, in 2019, I was selected as the "data application helper" of the excellent team because the community friends including engineers, designers and NGO advocates saw the "government open information platform" (data The information in .gov.tw) lacks past experience, and the public cannot confirm the status of the application for relevant information. 

Through the President’s Cup hackathon, the "Data Application Assistant" and the National Development Council, which manages the government’s open data platform, are working together to study new practices. They changed their thinking from the perspective of demanders and standardized the response process so that applicants can grasp Past application situations, construct a positive interactive data application experience. This response process has been officially launched in 2020. 

Another inspiring case is the 2020 excellent team "Taiwan Good Planting Land". In view of the large amount of idle vacant land in the city, three landscape and geography professionals and scholars put forward the idea of "Integrating with trees" The environment creation vision of "" was matched by the President’s Cup Hackathon. Together with the Taoyuan City Government’s Maintenance Engineering Office, they used satellite data to understand the distribution of trees and overlay the land use data. Chance. Through the Haozhiji project platform, the Taoyuan City Government has cooperated with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company in March 2021 to plant trees in the Pingzhen Sports Park in Taoyuan City. 

The President's Cup Hackathon provides a platform for citizen hackers and civil servants to communicate and collaborate together. Young students who are not engineers or civil servants can also contribute through the "Young Student Medical Examination Government Website Project". 

Since 2017, my office, the Public Digital Innovation Space Group (PDIS) of the Executive Yuan, has convened young students every summer to transform the government's digital services. In the previous two years, the students examined the second and third-level agencies and business websites of the Executive Yuan, and proposed code improvement solutions; from 2019 to 2021, the students worked in groups to transform the website of a single government agency, through user interviews and ease of use Research the complete process of UI/UX and design a new website prototype for reference by related units. 

Taiwan Mountaineering application one-stop service network is the perfect application of the results of the apprenticeship. In October 2019, the Executive Yuan announced the policy of "Salute to the Mountains", with the core concepts of streamlining administration and convenience, information transparency and risk co-management as its core concepts, declaring the full opening of the mountains and forests. The prototype of the mountaineering website designed by a group of RAY students in the third session became the basis for the revision of the one-stop service website for mountaineering applications, and the trainees were also invited to participate in the revision. The new website based on the thinking of "user needs" was widely praised by Taiwanese friends immediately after it went online. 

In 2020, the website of the Youth Administration of the Ministry of Education will be one of the revision targets for the 4th internship. When the Youth Administration of the Ministry of Education officially launches the revision plan in 2021, in addition to adopting the revised prototype made during the internship, it will also invite Students join and directly provide user research and design suggestions. At present, the website of the Youth Department has been revised and launched in late September. We have also recorded the entire process of the collaboration of "Youth Affairs, Youth as Masters" and published it on the Internet for public inspection and reference. 

The word "democracy" is disassembled. It means dēmos "people" and kratos "rule". The people shall rule. This is the original meaning of democracy. What the "Taiwan Model" shows to the world is the value of classical democracy in the digital age: making the government's decision-making process transparent to the public, assisted by digital technology and collaborative tools, can promote the initiative of the public to participate in democracy. This is not just a democratic experiment in a country, but a common direction for the world in the future. 
