---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Rejuvenation after the epidemic, everyone has ㄗ ㄜˊ"
  excerpt: "People think about the meaning of \"ㄗㄜˊ\" to themselves, and create a \"choice future\" together."
  image: "/assets/imgs/article-615133ce59d06.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


Since Taiwan raised its national epidemic alert in May 2021, consumption patterns have undergone tremendous changes. How to open up new possibilities for products and services under the constraints of physical channels and on-site activities is the immediate sight of all industries The most important challenge. 

Through the experimental approach of public-private collaboration, we let challenges become opportunities. The Small and Medium-sized Enterprise Division of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which has been nurturing social innovation for a long time, takes the UN Sustainable Development Goal SDG12 "Responsible Consumption and Production" as the main axis, and connects 75 social innovation manufacturers each year to establish a "commercial firm" plan in 2020. Named after the phonetic "ㄗㄜˊ", it represents the turbulence of "responsible" production and "selective" consumption. It is more open for everyone to think about the meaning of "ㄗㄜˊ" to themselves, and to create a "selective future." 

In the face of the impact of the epidemic, the SME Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs continues to explore opportunities for social innovation, including negotiations on brand IP co-branding, physical flash counters, and various e-commerce channels. Among them, in July 2021, the China Enterprise Office of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Taiwanese e-commerce PChome 24h shopping jointly launched the "You ㄜ Online Flagship Store". The first wave of 20 socially created brands including natural ingredients and environmentally friendly products will be launched. It won a lot of praise. 

Inspired by the special area of commercial banks, the Taiwanese government launched the "Five-fold Rejuvenation Coupon" in September, and used the same method to retrieve customers for local stores. The Taiwanese government’s bailout 4.0 program started in June 2021 has assisted 11.05 million people. In order to help more friends affected by the epidemic, since September, the Taiwanese government has sent a "revitalization of NT$5,000" to all people. "Five times coupons", as long as they are nationals born before April 30, 2022 and foreigners who have obtained permanent residency, they can choose to receive paper coupons, or bind the five times coupons to a credit card or mobile payment. Business use. 

This time the scope of use of promotion coupons is included in the domestic e-commerce platform for the first time. Each platform must plan to set up special zones for the promotion of five times coupons so that the consumption of five times coupons is limited to local production stores and small farmers. This is modeled after the practice of a commercial bank. In addition to changing consumption habits due to the impact of the epidemic, it can also ensure that the revitalization coupons are accurately used in local products and stores. 

On the basis of 2020, we have also added many practices to make the use of five times coupons more convenient. For example, the "co-binding" mechanism that allows other people's five times coupons to be concentrated in the same person's account, in addition to operating in the supermarket card reader, the public can also use the health insurance autotoll OTP to add up to four people's five times coupons Enter the account that you bind. 

In addition, five times coupons in 2021 also increase the code setting. When the public is digitally bound, they will get a set of discount codes. Whether it is physical purchase or online consumption, just write this set of codes when placing an order or checkout to prove that this is a five-fold coupon. Consumption allows consumers not only to enjoy the corresponding discounts, but also to confirm that the five-fold coupon is used in the desired store and product. 

SDG12's goal is to ensure a sustainable consumption and production model. From service design to consumption process, Taiwan’s revitalization five-fold coupon through social innovation through public-private collaboration has not only found flexible methods for the post-epidemic economy, but also created a new model for responsible consumption and production. 
