---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Democracy Summit: Affirm the value of democracy with technology"
  excerpt: "Not only need to \"be entrusted by the people,\" but also to \"work with the people.\""
  image: "/assets/imgs/panel-20211210.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "社會創新"
---


The main idea I want to convey is not only to &quot;be entrusted by the people,&quot; but to &quot;cooperate with the people.&quot; 

The human rights organization CIVICUS investigates the global freedom of civil activities with more than 20 regional partners each year. Taiwan has been rated as &quot;fully open&quot; for three consecutive years. On this year&#39;s CIVICUS Monitor, my country is the only one in Asia Green highlights. 

Where did my country&#39;s democratic achievements come from? The key is that the process of Taiwan’s Internet and democracy has developed simultaneously from the beginning. The ten years from the lifting of martial law in 1987 to the first direct presidential election in 1996 were the ten years when personal computers became popular on the World Wide Web. For the people of Taiwan, democracy is like social technology. It must be enriched through the joint efforts of all people. 

Therefore, the Chinese government has always insisted on &quot;broadband human rights&quot;: to reduce the cost of citizen technology through digital infrastructure. Our network facilities allow anyone to broadcast live broadcasts even in Yushan, the highest peak in Taiwan. We believe that an open and free speech environment is the soil for digital democracy to blossom and bear fruit. 

Because the 23 million people in Taiwan have become accustomed to using the Internet as a public discussion space, we can prevent the epidemic without shutting down the city, and we can verify it without removing the shelves. For example, as early as the end of 2019, when the epidemic information just began to spread, social networks dedicated to public issues had already heated discussions, allowing us to quickly grasp the direction and make advance deployment. 

In the face of the ensuing challenges, digital democracy has been proven to be the most effective solution. The &quot;SMS system&quot; is a good example. 

In order to prevent the path of large-scale community infection, the epidemic investigation must quickly and effectively grasp the footprint of the confirmed person. If reliable information is not provided for tracking, it will form a loophole in epidemic prevention, but this often conflicts with privacy . If the government mandates the use of certain mobile phone software, it may be counterproductive. Therefore, the &quot;real-linked system&quot; does not centrally manage data or hand it over to the control of multinational companies, but seeks solutions together with social departments. 

In the middle of this year, friends from the Taiwanese citizen science and technology community g0v developed a mechanism to assist the epidemic through SMS; the government and the private sector worked together to develop and deploy the &quot;1922 SMS Real Linkage System&quot; within one week. . 

Anyone who scans the QR Code of the place and sends a text message to 1922 can save travel records so that the epidemic investigator can read the information from the system when necessary, and accurately compare the footprints of the confirmed person and the contact. No need to disclose any private information to the venue. 

Without a partnership of strong mutual trust, collaboration cannot be so smooth. Of course, we should still take care of the needs of the elderly and visually impaired friends; the original paper records, stamping instead of filling in, etc., are still tolerated and not contradictory. 

An epidemic investigator applies to query a specific door number by applying for the track record of that door number through the epidemic investigation assistance platform. Door number holders can reverse query &quot;Which unit&#39;s epidemic investigation personnel and when did they check the mobile phone number&quot; on the SMS.1922 platform; after 28 days, all records will be deleted. 

The newsletter system, which originated from the community, has always upheld the spirit of personal data autonomy, so we can respond in time when new challenges arise. For example, when a judge was reviewing a search ticket application filed by a police unit, he found that the documentary evidence contained a brief message of the actual joint system. Fortunately, the design of multi-party distributed storage prevents the police from obtaining the correspondence table of the SMS code and location. 

After the judge refused to sign the search ticket and publicly questioned its legitimacy, the Ministry of Justice immediately explained: The newsletter system is not within the scope of the &quot;Communication Security and Supervision Law&quot; to retrieve or monitor, so it should not be used for law enforcement Purpose to ensure the original intention of the civic community. 

&quot;Government by the People&quot; is the original meaning of democracy. Facing the harm of the global epidemic and false information, the Taiwan model shows the world how the partnership of &quot;citizens‧government‧private sector&quot; can shape digital democracy: by opening up people’s participation in public policies, civil society can quickly gather value and develop innovative solutions , Contribute to the world. 

---

The concept of &quot;digital infrastructure&quot; is like reliable infrastructure such as water, electricity, and roads, which makes life convenient and secure. The digital infrastructure of citizens also makes democracy convenient and secure. 

For example, the citizen science and technology community developed a low-cost micro-sensing device &quot;air box&quot; in 2015, which is now spread across schools and their own balconies. Citizen science not only complements the limited capacity of the government, it is also the best example of data literacy and environmental education. The following year, the Taiwanese government launched the &quot;People&#39;s Livelihood Public Internet of Things,&quot; and for the first time included numbers in the forward-looking infrastructure budget. From the first two thousand devices, there are now tens of thousands of devices. 

After data sharing, how to build consensus with digital technology is also an important investment. For example, after Uber entered Taiwan in 2015, it was widely welcomed by passengers, but it also triggered a backlash from the taxi industry. With the help of the g0v community, the Taiwanese government used the open source software pol.is to invite stakeholders who care about this issue to focus on discussions. , And we have learned from this experience that seemingly divergent public issues often contain a lot of shared value. For example, &quot;safety&quot; is the common value of participants, and must have a professional driver&#39;s license, insurance and taxation, which is the basic consensus-these discussions are finally condensed into the 2016 &quot;Diversified Taxi Plan&quot;. 

 Cross-border discussions can also use the same way to collaborate. For example, last year, Taiwan and the United States’ &quot;Smart Coordination-Digital Dialogue&quot; and &quot;Taiwan-US Epidemic Prevention Pine Cohack&quot;, both use interactive digital tools &quot;Pol.is&quot;, Let participants see the relative position of their own thoughts and others in the visualized opinion spectrum, and then think about and co-create a &quot;good enough&quot; consensus. 

Finally, the mechanism that allows social innovation to spread rapidly is an important democratic investment. Taiwan’s President’s Cup Hackathon has been held for four consecutive years. Every year, thousands of social entrepreneurs and grassroots civil servants participate in the competition and contribute to our public digital facilities. Each year, five outstanding teams are finally selected, awarded by the president, and supported in the next year. 

So, I want to use Taiwan’s experience to call on all free countries to invest in citizen technology to strengthen democracy. As we said in the state statement: &quot;There is not enough faith, but there is no faith.&quot; As a democratic country, we must trust our citizens—Taiwan can help. 

 <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BkewUzZKanU" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 
