---
  layout: "post"
  title: "The Soul of Web3: SBT Credentials"
  excerpt: "This newly born NFT application concept is about to change the web3 ecosystem."
  image: "https://cdn-cw-english.cwg.tw/article/202206/article-62ba90a0b8fa0.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


What are SBT (Soulbound tokens)? This newly born NFT application concept is about to change the web3 ecosystem. In mid-June, I had Vitalik Buterin as a guest on my podcast show #InnoMinds. The founder of the well-known blockchain platform "Ethereum", in addition to expressing his views on the digital community and freedom of speech in the program, he also explained in detail the strategies he and RadicalxChange founders Glen Weyl and Flashbots adopted in May this year. The core of the paper "Decentralized Society: Finding the Soul of Web3 (DeSoc)" co-authored by teacher Puja Ohlhaver: SBT (Soul Binding Credential). 

As early as the beginning of this year, Vitalik has proposed the concept of Soulbound. This concept comes from the online game "World of Warcraft". Once some items are acquired by players, they become "soul-bound items" and cannot be transferred or sold to other players. In the game, the advantage of soul binding is to avoid speculation and increase interest. Players cannot hide and brush equipment, but must make full use of soul binding items to face real challenges and tasks. 

 Games often bring forth rich ideas for the real world, so is it possible that the web3 world that has just been developed also adopts the same rules? Treasures provide an advantage to individual players, but to truly win, you must rely on a guild formed by players to form a team to fight monsters. As pointed out in the DeSoc paper, Soulbound tokens are also "community-bound tokens", which are symbols of group participation. 

In recent years, the hype of various “virtual currencies” and NFTs has been rampant. However, the status of only anonymous transactions and no community participation is equivalent to encouraging human greed in disguise, whether it is virtual asset withdrawals, account hacking incidents, or the so-called "airdrops" that are fraudulent and blood-sucking attacks. Wait, it's still being heard. 

This paper proposes a solution to these problems, that is, the "Soul" account bound to an individual or organization, and SBT is the badge collected in it, representing the community-approved contribution Jilu, once Once you agree to cast, you can't give it to someone else. 

 The uniqueness of SBT is that the “community” can also be used as a certified unit. For example, the soul account of the “Social Innovation Center” can issue SBT to different teams, and universities can also issue SBT to affiliated schools. . Through the endowment and acceptance of various social relationships, SBT has become each other's certification, and the two parties have also enhanced their authenticity and mutual trust by publicly explaining the process of "doing what they say". 

Many online games not only provide treasures for unilateral use, but also provide players with voting rights to manage the guild treasury. Similarly, the SBT accumulated by the "soul" also reflects the right to co-creation and participation. These social advantages can create inequalities, but SBT allows all participants to see and adjust accordingly, thereby encouraging more diverse collaboration. 

Finally, if the account is lost or stolen, the SBT inside can "report the loss", that is, withdraw and resend. The paper also proposes a more advanced security mechanism, such as "community recovery", which can ask each community to send representatives to work together to restore the account. 

After talking with Vitalik, I think there are really two directions to experiment with right now. The first is the need for cross-border authentication: for example, foreigners who have never been to a certain country and do not have a local mobile phone number, visa or certificate, if they want to participate in the public affairs of the place from a distance, there is currently no universal verification method. At this point, SBT can make up for the lack of authentication mechanisms through shared community connections. 

 On the other hand, at present, the identity certificates of all countries in the world are issued to individuals, and SBT’s approach of taking the community as the main body can avoid the occurrence of “head-to-head” in various decision-making. In the Pol.is system that we often use to gather opinions, there is a way to treat each group of opinions as a unit, regardless of the number of people. Any proposal that wants to be put on the public agenda must be substantively persuaded to each group. , rather than reaching a "51% majority" by gathering heads. 

 Therefore, I am happy to see SBT adopt the same ethos: to encourage diverse communities to collaborate with each other, and to allow individual identities to be interwoven from within groups. In this way, even large-scale voting at the referendum level has the opportunity to ensure the inclusiveness and co-creation of opinions, so that all parties, no matter how loud, are not drowned in the crowd. 

The concept of SBT allows us to see how citizen technology can use innovative mechanisms to energize democracy. I am looking forward to seeing more communities put forward their needs and experiment together on how to implement SBT, develop the vision of a decentralized society, and achieve a multiverse (Plurality) that is "the treasure of good people and the protection of bad people". 
