---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Finding the intersection of opposites"
  excerpt: "Every need is real, and you can listen to the real situation of others.
  image: "/assets/imgs/hospice-gc4866b1b9_1280.jpg"
  author: "Audrey Tang, Hao-Ting Chang"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "Open Government"
---


 Since the outbreak of the epidemic, the shortage of medical care manpower has intensified the conflicts between caregivers and care recipients for many years. "Severely punish 50,000 escaped foreign workers, shorten the care window period caused by escape, include family care in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and protect the right to care and human rights of the disabled and demented" [joint case](https://join.gov .tw/idea/detail/285f0a1c-eaf3-408c-8d29-7225573921d5) was initiated by netizens, and after 5,000 signatures, it was selected as the [collaboration meeting] in our office (https://cm.pdis.nat.gov. tw/109/) theme. The collaborative process of opening up the government requires listening to the opinions of all parties and acting as a bridge of communication, which is especially difficult in long-term conflicting issues. We are working closely with the Ministry of Labour this time on this difficult task. 

 The content of this proposal involves many Chinese policies that have already been implemented, and the Ministry of Labor needs to carefully assist the public in clarifying the facts. In the collaborative meeting, we use the [Mind Map](https://miro.com/app/board/uxjvost2l2c=/?share_link_id=505761772493) to organize the data collected in advance and summarize the discussions on the spot in real time. The representative of the proposal shared with us after the meeting: "I have learned about the working of collaborative meetings before, and many of the participants participated in this way for the first time, including slideo and mind maps. This time, everyone's imagination was concreted. , I think this kind of meeting process is very good, and I hope to continue to follow up and let the participants know more information.” 

 Another feature of the collaborative meeting is that all parties can share their experiences and difficulties face-to-face and communicate with each other. understand. "The needs of employers, labor unions and agents are different. Originally, everyone opposed and imagined each other, but when you come to the scene, you will see that every need is real, and you can listen to the real situation of others." The representative of the proposal said this . 

 The desk leader who led the group discussion to facilitate such a discussion is absolutely indispensable. Each collaborative meeting was led by open government liaisons from different ministries. This time we invited Ruchen from the Financial Services Council, Yi Shan from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and Yin Zhe from the Mainland Affairs Council. Yishan shared her tips for leading this discussion: "If there are people in the group who want to immediately refute other people's speech, I encourage them to write it down first, and the situation will improve." Yishan also added: "Emphasis more on giving everyone completeness. The speaking time.” Some participants also shared the live discussion: “The second group of Confucian ministers and section chiefs brought them very well. They can change conflicting words and leave them to the next person to speak.” During the discussion, it was inevitable to participate in Mixed emotions, it is necessary to rely on clear thoughts, the small desk leader organizes the words, and finds the right person to respond to the question and promote the discussion. 

 Of course, a collaborative meeting alone cannot completely resolve a long-standing conflict. However, through such sorting and discussion, we can find a direction that everyone can agree on, and then we can continue to advance. A participant said to us: "It is surprising that a basic consensus can be reached under such conflicts. Although the consensus is not deep in a limited time, it can be a little bit in the original situation of opposition. It is not easy to meet each other.”

We hope that this kind of discussion will be a starting point, and through the arrangement of data, complete records, and face-to-face communication and sharing of experience, we will build a bridge between the government and the people. To formulate policies, we no longer rely solely on the unilateral conception and implementation of the government, but through the power of the people to find the intersection of opposites, so as to ensure the direction of policy implementation and meet the needs of all parties. 
