---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Social Innovation Emerging Asia"
  excerpt: "Next year's Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Summit \"Xingxin Asia\" will be held in Yilan, starting from local culture, hoping to expand Taiwan's local culture to Asia-Pacific countries through the exchange of cultural experience."
  image: "https://cdn-cw-english.cwg.tw/article/202205/article-6295c63863d10.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


This year's Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Summit and Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award ended in mid-May. Due to changes in the epidemic, the third-year summit was also urgently adjusted for the first time. The two-day event that was originally planned to be held in Tainan was quickly adjusted to the practice of all events except the market taking into account the risk of reducing exposure only three weeks before the event. I must thank the organizer Tainan Xinya for its quick response, as well as all the speakers, audience and staff for their cooperation in making the summit run smoothly. 

The list of winners of the 4th Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award was also announced at the summit. Cases from Taiwan, Hong Kong, Vietnam and Cambodia were awarded. This year, echoing the theme of the summit "Healthy Asia", the Special Jury Award is based on the theme of "Human-Oriented", which encourages people-oriented social innovation cooperation cases and strengthens the physical and mental health of human beings under the new lifestyle. The award-winning units are also on this theme. It showcases creative and practical social innovation ideas, such as the Vietnamese team Think Playgrounds, which is committed to creating a play space for urban residents to play for adults and children. Vietnam is a country with a rapidly developing economy, but the community space suitable for children's activities is quite insufficient. Therefore, Think Playgrounds starts from Hanoi and cooperates with different communities, enterprises, architects and designers to make available public spaces or It is a private space that the company is willing to provide, and it can be turned into a child-friendly place such as a community park and playground. 

Think Playgrounds currently has more than 1,000 volunteers and has set up more than 200 playground areas in Vietnam. Starting from the needs of users, the application of revitalizing idle space fully demonstrates the ingenuity of social innovation, especially the stimulus of the epidemic in the past two years, which has also caused everyone's demand for public space to soar. Melting playgrounds also have the same effect. 

Another case of winning the Social Co-Prosperity Award is Phare, The Cambodian Circus from Cambodia. Farr Circus is an art school of "Circus Without Elephants". It is committed to cultivating local Cambodian artists and performers. In addition to providing diverse performance environments and employment opportunities, it also provides arts, education, and social programs for Support for socioeconomically disadvantaged children and youth. Since its founding in 2013, Farr Circus has served an average of 1,000 students each year and has provided support operations to more than 10,000 families in 3 communities. Profits from circus performances are used to support the execution of related training programs and support programs. 

The cases from Taiwan that won awards this year are also brilliant, including Babaijin, which focuses on watershed recovery, Xusi Co., Ltd., which focuses on women’s physiological issues, Cathay Bank, which assists social innovation organizations to obtain loans, and Tasteme, a serial platform that reduces food waste and waste. The first public trust SERT in Taiwan to invest in social innovation organizations. Since its inception, the Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Cooperation Award has been the practice of inviting industry experts from different international social innovation intermediary organizations in the Asia-Pacific region to serve as judges. The Taiwan case was affirmed, which also means that our local social innovation cooperation cases have reached world-class standards. 

Next year's Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Summit "Xingxin Asia" will be held in Yilan, starting from local culture, hoping to expand Taiwan's local culture to Asia-Pacific countries through the exchange of cultural experience. Welcome friends who are interested in this year's summit and awards related information, you can find it on the website of the Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Summit and Social Innovation Platform, and look forward to next year's summit and the Asia-Pacific Social Innovation Award, and more friends will join Xingxin Asia's ranks! 
