---
  layout: "post"
  title: "International Pine: Net-Zero Cooperation, Sustainable Future"
  excerpt: "Global Citizens team up to make great ideas a gift to the planet"
  image: "/assets/imgs/phi2022.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "社會創新"
---


Presidents Cup Hackathon [International Track](https://presidential-hackathon.taiwan.gov.tw/en/international-track/) has been held since 2019, and this year has entered its fourth year, with 36 participants so far. Friends from different countries participated in the grand event. As the name suggests, the purpose of International Pine is to invite global hackers to come up with solutions using open data through different themes. From the preliminary round to the final, all the results of the concerted efforts will be selected by the review committee to select the outstanding team and invited to the Presidential Palace to participate in the award ceremony. Over the years, International Pine has created a platform for friends who are interested in connecting with the world to communicate at ease, so that good ideas are not only seen in Taiwan, but also have the opportunity to be practiced in some parts of the world. If you want to collaborate and realize great ideas with friends on the other side of the world, International Pine is a worthwhile choice. 

In 2020, due to the epidemic, participants from various countries could not come to Taiwan freely, so the International Festival of that year was changed to be held online. That experience proved that digital technology is a tool of "resilience" in the face of emergencies. Through online meetings, real-time communication and collaboration tools, we found that team members can still create and complete this collaborative "marathon" in different places even when they are in different places, and get to know other teams on the platform of International Pine. Open up opportunities for communication. 

 Through the online link, past participating teams have the opportunity to share their experience directly with friends who are interested in signing up. For this year, we held a Show & Learn webinar on March 30th Taiwan time, and we invited A/B Street, one of the outstanding teams of the 2021 International Pine, as one of the keynote speakers. A/B Street last year proposed "[Ungap the Map](http://bike.abstreet.org)" an open-source, interactive bike map designed to make bike planning easier for government agencies, transportation planners, bike advocacy groups, and the public routes, finding a balance between safety, convenience and undulating sections, while encouraging more people to cycle to reduce CO2 emissions. The team also designed a simulation game of "15-minute Santa's Mission" to help users familiarize themselves with map functions and experience the real needs of bicycle users in the city. 

Through open source and gamification, closely following last year's theme "Sustainability 2.0 - Climate Action", A/B Street demonstrates one of the innovative and interesting ways to practice sustainability. Following the theme of last year, International Pine in 2022 will continue to focus on net zero emissions with the theme of "Climate Action: Realizing Net Zero". In the "Paris Agreement" in 2015, many countries around the world have declared their own contributions to reducing carbon emissions, and the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in 2021 also called on countries around the world to gradually reduce fossil fuels, and invited global citizens. Brainstorming, taking the "city" as the unit of action, put forward specific plans on how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, so that global climate warming can be limited between 1.5°C and 2°C. 

Like A/B Street's proposal, whether it is the transportation system, waste, sanitation, etc. in the city, it is closely related to greenhouse gas or carbon emissions. For this reason, International Pine is now calling for applications until May 23, Taiwan time. Experts in various fields, hackers, and global citizens who are interested in helping the world achieve the goal of net zero are welcome to team up to participate, so that excellent ideas can become gifts to the earth. 
