---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Send noodle online cloud"
  excerpt: "\"Taiwan Cloud Marketplace\" has been used by more than 36,000 companies."
  image: "/assets/imgs/digitization-7580781_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位產業"
---


A few days ago, my colleagues from the Industrial Development Administration and I went to the oil depot in Banqiao to learn about the application of the [Taiwan Cloud Market](https://www.tcloud.gov.tw/) platform . The store has been in business for 36 years. From roadside stalls to storefronts, it is already a time-honored snack bar in Banqiao. The steaming noodles and the sweet and plump oysters are impressive. 

The boss said that they usually start preparing materials at six o'clock in the morning, and then open the store from nine thirty in the morning until seven o'clock in the evening. Even if there is an endless stream of customers, the well-trained clerks keep the queue from stagnating. From ordering to checkout, the meal can be served in an average of five minutes. 

However, at the same time, the clerks are still overwhelmed with various customized needs such as on-site ordering and delivery, answering reservation calls, confirming takeaway orders, and "no coriander". Recording and verbal transmission using only pen and paper is time-consuming and error-prone. 

This problem has found an effective solution through the "Taiwan Cloud Market" platform promoted by the Digital Industry Agency of the Ministry of Digital Affairs. 

"Taiwan Cloud Bazaar" integrates cross-agency processes such as the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and selects various cloud tools and services suitable for small and medium-sized enterprises into a single platform. 

As long as it meets the certification standards of small and medium-sized enterprises, or is a profit-making enterprise with tax registration, in just ten minutes, all procedures such as application, review and signing can be completed on the cloud market website, and the digital transformation plan can be directly purchased. You can also get up to 30,000 yuan in digital point subsidies. If you don't know how to choose the right solution, there are also expert consultants online to provide assistance. 

Through the cloud market, Youkukou Noodle Shop adopts the "Quicker Line Ordering Customer Service System" to provide customers with 24-hour online ordering and online payment. 

Through digital operation, the clerk no longer needs to answer the phone, and the verbal confirmation time of about three minutes is eliminated for each order. Moreover, because of the online ordering system, it has reached a wider customer base and increased the consumption of online group buying, and the average unit price of each customer has increased by at least two times. In addition, through data collection, it is also helpful for raw material management, making the purchase cost more accurate. 

From the story of Youkukou noodle shop, we can see that the cloud service with open subscription system and transferable data is an important digital transformation tool for SME partners. Therefore, in addition to helping more business partners introduce cloud solutions through the cloud market, we also encourage service providers to continue to innovate through the "Digital Cloud Service Thematic R&D Subsidy Program" and develop simple and easy-to-use cloud solutions for all walks of life. plan. 

At present, "Taiwan Cloud Market" has collected 15 types of cloud solutions such as online store opening, marketing promotion, remote office, enterprise management, customer service, and market analysis. As of November this year, there have been more than 15 cloud solutions Thirty-six thousand companies use it. 

All walks of life have different operating objectives. The Digital Department continues to assist everyone in finding suitable digital tools and cloud services, so that all kinds of carefully crafted services and products can be delivered to customers easily and simply. 
