---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Democracy Summit Action: Open Data on Gender Statistics"
  excerpt: "How to ensure commitment and continue to deepen the implementation? The existence of the Significant Gender Statistics Database is crucial."
  image: "/assets/imgs/abstract-gf3ded81fa_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


In the first "Democracy Summit" in December 2021, we will not only share the achievements of democracy, but also discuss three major themes of "fighting authoritarianism, combating corruption, and promoting human rights" with our partners. Building on this list of 62 specific domestic and international commitments, made by our interagency partners, Taiwan will work with like-minded countries to continue investing in strengthening democracy and optimizing human rights. One of the specific commitments is to "disclose the gender ratio of decision-makers," including ministries and commissions affiliated to the Executive Yuan, state-run enterprises, and government-sponsored foundations. 

In 2007, the Chinese government signed the "Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women". Article 7 of the Convention particularly emphasizes "guaranteeing the participation of different genders in the formulation and implementation of government policies, holding public office, and performing public duties"; for many years, the Executive Yuan has made gender equality The conference has accumulated fruitful results on gender mainstreaming, how to ensure the commitment and continue to deepen the implementation? The existence of the Significant Gender Statistics Database is crucial. This database is compiled by the Sex Ping Association, which selects important items from the gender statistics items established by various government agencies. Since 2015, more than 500 items of gender statistics from various agencies have been collected, providing all walks of life with the long-term trend of gender equality development. 

After the discussion at the Democracy Summit, we decided to formally link the “[Key Gender Statistics Database](https://www.gender.ey.gov.tw/gecdb/)” to the “[government data open platform] ](https://data.gov.tw/)”. Making data structured and open for global use is an important foundation for promoting gender-inclusive dialogue and participation, and it is another commitment we made at the summit; the implementation of Taiwan's first National Action Plan for Open Government. Therefore, the Executive Yuan's Sexual Affairs Division, the National Development and Reform Commission, and my office set out to plan the technical details of interfacing the database with the open platform. 

 Since the important gender statistics come from different agencies, if they are sorted and uploaded to the platform separately, it will not only increase the cost of communication between agencies, but also may cause the risk of data omission and difficulty in classification. Therefore, from March this year, we decided to import the data of all ministries into the platform in batches on a daily basis through the shared keyword "#genderstatistics". Quick confirmation when tidying up. These practices can not only ensure the complete import of data, but also allow relevant units to be more flexible in subsequent data processing, such as adding multiple keywords to a single data set to make data search more accurate. 

 The "Key Gender Statistics Database" represents the government's views on gender policy. When these data are combined with global open data to explore, analyze, and cross-comparison, the significance of gender factors in policy can be more clearly seen, and the spirit of "evidence-based governance" can be injected into the daily life of public affairs, and gender impact assessment will not be the same. It's empty talk. This is not only our policy guideline, but also an important cornerstone for the advancement of digital democracy and human rights. 
