---
  layout: "post"
  title: "The promise of the Future Internet Manifesto"
  excerpt: "Harness the democratic power of the \"people network\" to strengthen the digital resilience of the \"Internet\"."
  image: "/assets/imgs/278898019_1310666159424651_7475624880982055387_n.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


As an integral part of modern society, the Internet is the bloodline that connects the global society. Whether on a mountain at an altitude of 3,800 meters, or in a remote village located deep in the mountains, through the Internet, the life experience and humanistic assets between people will transcend race, gender, Status, linked by hyperlinks, relying on each other's communication protocols, everyone can access the same resources and services. 

We seem to be living in the era of the most free communication, but at the same time we are facing the most severe test. 

 User communities that believe in different values form digital settlements based on their identities, but they are often involved in behavior patterns that intensify confrontation and distinguish between enemy and self. The power asymmetry brought about by the centralization of information has also made many friends around the world worry that the era of digital centralization is coming. At the same time, a few totalitarian regimes also seized this opportunity, trying to redefine democracy and freedom as "democracy under regulation" and "freedom within walls", twisting the rapid transmission of digital technology into a stick for controlling others. , pointing to each corner. 

At the end of last year, as a Taiwanese political commissar, I participated in the Democracy Summit convened by the White House in the United States to share how our country can effectively control the risk of epidemic prevention without sacrificing personal freedom under these waves of epidemics. experience. In addition, it also takes the fight against false information as an example to demonstrate how the civil community spontaneously gathers the wisdom of the masses, uses the democratic power of the "personal network", and strengthens the digital resilience of the "internet". 

The core value is: the government must first trust the people, and then the people can achieve mutual trust and cooperation with the government. 

How to implement it? Earlier this year at the end of April, I signed the "Future Internet Manifesto" with representatives of 60 countries around the world. Countries with similar ideas jointly undertake to promote the protection of human rights, freedom and mutual trust, and at the same time, to promote the openness and interoperability of the digital economy in a pluralistic and inclusive manner; and to conduct participatory governance of the Internet through a multi-stakeholder structure. 

 This declaration not only focuses on the multi-party connection of the "Internet", but also on the decentralized structure of the "Internet", which is both decentralized and interdependent - if a corner of a node stalls and falls , the entire Internet will sink down. 

The European Union has recently put forward the "Digital Service Law" and "Digital Market Law", which regulates the responsibilities and obligations of service providers and market gatekeepers to respond to the needs of society; in Taiwan, we believe in broadband It is a basic human right. In addition to adhering to freedom of speech and promoting digital democracy, the Communication Association also drafted the "Digital Communication and Communication Service Law" with reference to relevant international norms to connect the laws applicable in the real society to the digital world. 

 Faced with the challenges of the future digital age, no one needs to be silenced. We will continue to strengthen our partnership with the world and collaborate to promote the common governance of the Internet. We welcome continuous feedback from all walks of life. 
