---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Idea loose, build infinite future"
  excerpt: "Co-creation by the whole people, let the future come through everyone."
  image: "/assets/imgs/light-bulbs-1407610_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位策略"
---


The hashtag for the Ministry of Digital Development, why #FreeTheFuture? 

Decades ago, the well-known science fiction writer William Gibson (William Gibson) experienced the emerging virtual reality (VR) technology and expressed his feelings: "The future has come, but it is not evenly distributed." At that time VR is not yet mature enough to be a part of everyday life, but the experience has given him a glimpse into the future. 

Free the Future means that the future has infinite possibilities, because the digital world can not only break the limitation of time and space, but also allow us to communicate and co-create with all kinds of people, so that imaginary things can become reality. 

In the past few years, Taiwan has achieved many fruitful results of national cooperation. For example, for friends at home and abroad who are interested in improving government digital services, the "Presidents Cup Hackathon" provides a place to realize good ideas, and has now become a milestone in Taiwan's public innovation. 

The Digital Development Department has been planning since the preparatory period. Through co-creation by the whole people, the physical interpersonal network will be further expanded into a multiverse of "co-presence, code-carrying interoperability". "Idea Pine" hopes to take a step towards the future through the unlimited imagination of the whole people. 

In view of the fact that 6G technology will mature around 2040, related applications will shape the future life. The future is originally formed by everyone's imagination, 

Therefore, this year's first Ideas Song takes "WeWe Futures: 2040 Multiverse (Plurality)" as the theme, open to individual and group submissions, and also provides virtual and real The inclusive and immersive performance allows all people to discuss our expectations for 2040 through personal participation. 

How is IdeaThon different from other hackathons? In the past, the Presidents Cup Hackathon was open to citizens to make wishes, and several experts proposed solutions and implemented them on the ground; Ideasong welcomed social co-creation and invited all citizens to explore the possibility of the future together. 

In other words, Ideasong is completely open to all kinds of submission forms. On the basis of hackathons, it breaks away from the achievements of website applications in the past, and further expands the thinking and actions of the participation of the whole people. 

"Future News" individual competition, all individuals are welcome to create events or reports that may happen in 2040, not limited to video, text or multimedia; "Future Prototype" team competition encourages the development of design concepts for 2040, including tangible Space commodities, intangible service mechanisms, or living entities. As long as you are shortlisted, you will receive interdisciplinary expert guidance, and through the assistance of extended reality technology, you will produce a prototype of the concept. 

 In 2015, after experiencing VR again, Gibson said: "They did it!" The novelist who had already described the digital world before the Internet was popular, saw the future he described actually come. 

No one can accurately predict the future, but everyone can bring the outline of the future to the present through imagination and creation, and then realize it through co-creation. This is the original intention of Ideasong, and also the expectation of the Digital Department: co-creation by all people, so that the future comes through everyone. 
