---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Made in Taiwan Reliable and Reliable"
  excerpt: "MIT has always been a guarantee of quality. Today, T is more trustworthy (Trustworthiness)."
  image: "/assets/imgs/hands-gcaa92debe_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位產業"
    - "資通安全"
---


A while ago, FCC Commissioner Brendan Carr visited Taiwan for the first time. When visiting the Ministry of Digital Technology, he pointed out that Taiwan is a reliable economic and national security partner, and he very much looks forward to the deepening of cooperation between the two sides in matters related to information security. 

Commissioner Karl's statement has its own reasons. Taiwan has become the world leader in semiconductor and information and communication manufacturing, and has the most complete industrial supply chain in the world. And we are at the forefront of overseas cyber attacks, and we have rich practical experience in information security. 

With the recent rapid changes in the international situation, governments of various countries are paying more and more attention to the security risks of technology products. For example, the United Kingdom announced that it will completely remove Huawei's 5G products by 2027. Therefore, the digital department will integrate "industrial information security" and "information security industry" to create a reliable supply chain. 

In terms of strengthening industrial information security, in January this year, the world's first semiconductor information security standard "SEMI E187" jointly created by Taiwan's industry, government, academia and research circles was officially released. Is the device secure. In order to help more operators to use it, practical operation guidelines were also released in October to guide the industry in evaluating whether the product complies with the regulations. 

In addition, in the past, Chinese manufacturers could only send chips to foreign laboratories for safety testing. If the inspection failed, the industry had to modify the product before sending it for inspection, resulting in high costs. 

Now, the "Chip Security Joint Testing Laboratory" is jointly established by the Ministry of Digital Industry, the academic community and the industry, providing local testing for the industry to enter the international market at a lower cost and faster. 

From these experiences, it can be seen that information security is already a necessary investment in semiconductors and even all walks of life; Taiwan began to promote the "six core strategic industries" two years ago, including the excellent information security industry. 

In recent years, Taiwan's new information security enterprises have also made significant progress in "quality" and "quantity". Up to now, 28 information security innovations have been established, among which Laiyi Digital and Boou Technology have also won the In the past two years, he has won the first prize in the field of network security of SelectUSA, an investment summit in the United States. 

As a digital "coach" for various industries, the Ministry of Digital Industry has also built Taiwan's first information security practice base "Shalun Information Security Service Base" to help strengthen industrial information security and promote the information security industry. 

The information security base simulated and designed twelve sets of attack scenarios based on information security incidents at home and abroad. In response to these scenarios, we have also cooperated with domestic information security companies to develop defensive countermeasures. The team can not only use it to participate in the actual test, grasp the advantages and disadvantages of their own products, but also learn more about suitable solutions. 

In other words, the information security service base is not only a training ground for information security manufacturers, but also a platform for matching supply and demand and gathering business opportunities in the information security industry. 

Made in Taiwan (MIT) has always been a quality assurance. Today, T not only represents Taiwan, but also means trustworthiness. By strengthening industrial information security and developing the information security industry, the Digital Division will let the world see: "Made in Taiwan means trust and reliability."
