---
  layout: "post"
  title: "What is a multiverse?"
  excerpt: "Everyone can freely choose different channels to connect with each other securely."
  image: "/assets/imgs/team-4200837_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "民主網絡"
---


Recently, many friends are very curious about the "Multiverse Division" of the Digital Development Department. Is it like the plots that have appeared in science fiction works, where there are multiple completely different societies on different timelines? And is the multiverse science going to "govern" these different societies? 

This is indeed quite creative thinking. However, just as the Digital Development Department does not conduct supervision business, the Multiverse Division is not the "Time Variation Administration" in the comics. The existence of this section is to allow the "metaverse" (metaverse) to communicate with each other and create new applications freely. 

The currently known Metaverse is extended through AR (augmented reality), VR (virtual reality) and other digital technologies, allowing people to appear as their own avatars in a world constructed in a virtual environment. However, the current virtual world can only interact within a specific digital platform, which virtually limits the possibility of innovation. 

How to break the restriction and communicate directly? In fact, in our lives, the practice of multiverses has been practically applied everywhere. 

Mobile phone number is a good example. Not only can you call across telecommunication providers, but you can also "carry codes" at any time to transfer your original mobile phone number to the telecommunication provider you want to use. The advantage of this is that everyone has more choices. You don't need to re-register your phone number and rebuild all your contact information, and you can freely choose your preferred service. 

However, the current large-scale cross-border digital platforms are not like this, and accounts are limited to use within the platform. Just like a mobile phone, it only has the function of calling within the network, and cannot call the numbers of other telecom operators. If you want to connect with others through different platforms, you must create an account on each platform. It's like everyone has to print several business cards, and the information on each business card cannot be updated synchronously. 

Such restrictions virtually stifle the possibility of innovation. Because all accounts must be approved by the platform, they can only be shared on a single platform. Moreover, the platform side controls all interactive data under each account, which poses risks to privacy and information security. 

If you want to freely connect and interact with other people without being influenced by the middle platform, you can use the "end-to-end encryption" method. That is, only the endpoints actually participating can see each other's messages, and the interaction will not be intercepted and recorded. This is the core concept of the "multiverse": everyone can freely choose different channels to connect to each other securely. 

What can multiverse science do? In fact, there are precedents to follow. More than ten years ago, instant messages in the Internet world could communicate with each other across platforms. E-mail is one of the earliest interoperable applications, and everyone can freely send to mailboxes in other domains. 

Use appropriate tools to communicate with each other, and then build consensus and spread innovation. This is the vision of the "Future Internet Manifesto", which is the "multiverse" that Taiwan is developing. 

Through a point-to-point, multi-center, and decentralized architecture, the Digital Development Department will continue to use the concept of interoperability to promote innovative applications that reflect local needs, creating an infinite future for Taiwan and the world. 
