---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Strengthening digital resilience for all"
  excerpt: "Estonia's experience demonstrates that \"multiple heterogeneity\" and \"social resilience\" are indispensable."
  image: "/assets/imgs/20220802.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---


 Former Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves recently visited Taiwan and attended the Ketagalan Forum. He proposed that Europe and the United States and Asian democracies, including my country, should form a "Digital Alliance for Democracy". Similar in function to NATO, but not based on geopolitics, but on shared values against authoritarianism. 

In fact, in response to this idea, as early as July 2022, President Ilves generously shared many specific practices and important thoughts on "how to strengthen digital resilience" in the TaiwanPlus program I hosted. Among them, Estonia has currently placed important government information abroad for backup and synchronization at any time. This is an epoch-making attempt for the operation of various governments. 

 This practice originated from the Fukushima incident in 2011. President Ilves said that after learning that the Japanese government had lost some government information due to the disaster, the Estonian government became alert and thought about how to respond to the situation. In addition to transporting important materials and entities to foreign embassies, they also set up servers in embassies. President Ilves pointed out that the Estonian government contacted the Luxembourg government for this purpose, and advocated that this server should also be regarded as the territory of Estonia, which cannot be entered without permission and is completely independent. If any important domestic information is changed, it will be updated to the embassy synchronously. server in . 

 This is not just an innovative act worthy of reference by governments around the world. The Estonian government has also demonstrated precisely how to build "digital resilience". What is Resilience? Resilience refers to the ability to recover quickly when adversely affected at any time, and to respond in real time through perfect mechanisms, and even learn from the experience of being attacked and strengthen one’s own physical fitness. It can be seen that Estonia's backup mechanism is an important infrastructure for strengthening digital resilience. 

In addition, the X-Road architecture jointly maintained by the governments of Estonia, Finland and Iceland does not use a single database, but provides a "Public Code" as a data exchange layer to avoid excessive risk concentration and keep data , the "heterogeneity" of space and usage. This way, even if some of them are attacked, the other nodes remain safe. 

 And "national cooperation" is also an important inspiration given to us by the Estonian government. As early as 1996, Estonia had provided computers in every school so that students could enter the digital world as early as possible; the government opened up everything from data to code, which not only made digital education universal, but also established digital capabilities for the entire population. In other words, once the system fails, anyone has the opportunity to identify and help solve the problem at any time. 

 Estonia's experience demonstrates that "multiple heterogeneity" and "social resilience" are indispensable. Maintaining diverse data and systems is the most comprehensive preparation; the people and the government are watching and helping each other, which is the most meticulous preparation. 

"Digital Resilience for All" is not only the content of the conversation between President Ilves and I, but also the core concept of the preparatory work of the Ministry of Digital Development. From broadband human rights to democratic epidemic prevention, Taiwan already has a solid foundation for resilience. Next, we will not only create an environment for Taiwan's participation by all, but also continue to create new opportunities for the digital resilience of the Democratic Alliance. 
