---
  layout: "post"
  title: "\"How\" is open is important"
  excerpt: "Being able to focus on issues and be realistic is the responsible approach."
  image: "/assets/imgs/beach-2836300_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、詹壹雯"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
    - "協作會議"
---


Taiwan is surrounded by the sea on all sides, with rich streams and ponds. Every summer in recent years, SUP stand-up paddles, canoes and other activities are popular, adding colorful colors to the water surface. 

 This year, there are just two open government collaboration conferences with similar themes. The same proposer, Mr. Li Yuanzhi, made a request on the public policy online participation platform: "Please ask the Executive Yuan to review the open park waters, reservoirs, fishing ports and other public facilities. facilities, encourage the whole people to enjoy water and carry out water safety education, and comprehensively improve the water quality of the Chinese people.” 

After the first stage of discussion, at the end of May, we invited stakeholders to collaborate online in different fields named by the proposers to jointly Explore how to open and apply. 

 Friends who love water activities hope that the government will implement the policy of lifting the ban on mountains and seas, and open up more "free" spaces for people to go into the water, so as to create a water-friendly environment for all. 

 The management unit does not shy away from saying that most people do not yet have the concept of taking their own risks. Therefore, being responsible for the "safety" of the people is still the top priority of the public sector, and even a burden. 

The collaborative meeting allows government units to listen to public opinion, and at the same time allows the public to understand the division of powers and responsibilities and operations of government departments. 

For example, the parks and lakes in the city are not managed by the special central regulations, but are regulated by the autonomous regulations of the counties and cities, which must be passed by the parliament. The management unit of the reservoir, in addition to the Water Resources Administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, also includes the Agricultural Committee, Taiwan Sugar, Taipower and other outsourced operators. As for fishing ports, there are differences between the first category, which is under the responsibility of the Central Fisheries Administration, and the second category, which is managed by counties and cities. Different powers and responsibilities can coordinate and cooperate, but they cannot act in their place. 

A member of the public asked anxiously after listening to the briefing of the meeting: "This is to tell us that the waters in the park are useless to the Ministry of the Interior. Do we have to talk to the county and city governments one by one?"

" Yes." We explain: This is not to shirk the blame, but to acknowledge the authority and effectiveness, as long as it is within the scope of the duties of the participating unit, you should know everything and strive to improve. 

 We hope to bring the ideological debate of "freedom" and "security" into a dialogue on "how to open and manage" in different fields. Therefore, the design allows the front-line colleagues of the aforementioned management units to discuss with the public one by one: open objects (people), processes (events), seasons (time), scope (place), and equipment (things). After all, a collaborative meeting is positioned as a cross-departmental communication platform. Focusing on issues and seeking truth from facts is a responsible approach. 

The people and government units who participated on that day understood that they needed cooperation rather than confrontation, to provide assistance and tolerance to the masses who were not yet fully able to take their own recreational risks. 

 This meeting once again reflects the diverse appearances of the people. Some people want the government to leave it alone, while others ask the government to control more. The government is also three-dimensional. The central and local governments have equal rights. The path of centralization. Perhaps, this also coincides with the idea of open water advocates. 
