---
  layout: "post"
  title: "How to integrate the benefits of online work in the physical workflow?"
  excerpt: "PETs technology is paired with a complete legal system to jointly uphold human rights in the digital age."
  image: "/assets/imgs/vr-6891052_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、張皓婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "青年參與"
    - "社會創新"
---


Looking back over the past year, the biggest change in Taiwanese society is to readjust the habits of life and work after experiencing the third level of vigilance. The example that impressed me the most was a group of young people with backgrounds in design, information, and research who rolled up their sleeves during the epidemic, participated in internships with new methods, and worked together to transform government digital services. 

My office is also the Public Digital Innovation Space Group (PDIS) that is leading this internship program. One of the challenges it faces is how to let young partners who have never met before, when they can’t do internships like traditional entities, In just two months, they got acquainted with each other through the screen and formed a team to collaborate. Therefore, the first task we gave ourselves was "How to make the online meeting as active as an entity?"

For the first online meeting, we designed a series of ice-breaking activities. For example, questions such as "Do you prefer to work early or midnight?" or "Tactful suggestions or direct feedback?" when you want others to collaborate, so that everyone can share their work habits. Enthusiasm through direct questions and activities can not only promote mutual understanding, but also establish effective cooperation and tacit understanding as soon as possible. 

For another example, because it is impossible to physically interview government website users, the students who are responsible for redesigning the public nursery registration system in Taipei City, in remote interviews, noticed that there are mothers holding their children in one hand and busy with the other. Operate the public trust system. This made them determined to develop a mobile phone version that can be easily operated with one hand. Through online real-time interaction, you can see all directions and listen to all directions, observe the daily use of the people, and turn all the observed details into inspiration and nourishment for the design. 

As I mentioned in the column, you can achieve "different love" from a distance. In the past, intern students used to gather together and discuss at will. During the long-distance period, we opened an online collaboration space in "Gather Town" for everyone to communicate and chat. This field has also expanded from discussing projects to holding book clubs, and even a great place to watch movies online and the Olympics together! 

Nowadays social life is gradually returning to normal, but we have developed: maintaining a remote flexible work style, more virtual and real integration official meetings, and even a completely online virtual concert. This process also allows colleagues in public affairs to experience: "How to integrate the benefits of online work in the physical workflow?" For example, maintaining the flexibility of online participation in physical meetings will allow colleagues who have inconvenient transportation and need to take care of their families. Opportunity to contribute. 

The epidemic has brought an impact, but it has also brought about rethinking the scale of work and life, as well as a more precise and effective use of time and resources. Looking forward to the new year, we, who are already familiar with a variety of online tools and able to flexibly grasp the pros and cons of virtual reality, can face the new normal of virtual reality after the epidemic. 
