---
  layout: "post"
  title: "incompressible algorithm"
  excerpt: "If you want to create the common sense gained by living in the world for twenty years, you must put in twenty years of effort."
  image: "/assets/imgs/20230803.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷、周宜蔓"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位策略"
    - "民主網絡"
    - "資通安全"
---


A few days ago, the famous science fiction magazine "Clarkesworld" temporarily closed submissions, because since the popularity of generative AI, the number of submissions synthesized by machines has soared, making the editorial team exhausted. "AI writing science fiction" sounds quite meta-interesting, but it reflects the concerns of many people. 

A wide range of AI services are available today, which can translate, draw, write programs, and even provide inspiration, becoming an important helper in all walks of life. But the experience of "Clarkesworld" magazine is the epitome of AI's impact on society. Even more serious is impersonating someone else's face and voice. This not only causes property losses and affects mutual trust between people, but once it is exploited by totalitarian regimes and criminals, it will cause major interference to the democratic system. 

Furthermore, current state-of-the-art generative AI is often trained by a single enterprise and then uses the same model for everyone. However, cultures and values are different in different places, and the interpretation of things is often very different. A single-source model will not only bias a specific group, but also be difficult to adapt to the diverse appearance of the world. 

I was invited to London Tech Week in June and these topics were the focus of lively discussions. At that time, regardless of the public and private sectors, the consensus of all parties was: AI must not move toward centralization, and should adopt a diverse and rich democratic model. In other words, to balance AI development and safety, we cannot rely on the unilateral decisions of a few developers. Let [citizens of all countries](https://fortune.com/2023/06/20/why-picking-citizens-at-random-best-way-to-govern-ai-revolution-tech-politics/) have pipelines Only by actively investing and working together to establish a globally trusted AI certification mechanism and jointly create AI ethics and usage principles can we ensure reliable and trustworthy AI. 

During the discussion, I remembered a science fiction novel I like very much, "The Life Cycle of Virtual Creatures" by Jiang Fengnan. The novel describes how future technology companies combine VR with AI to create virtual life. During the cultivation process, the two protagonists gradually realized that AI needs continuous care and education in order to truly grow. 

"Experience cannot be compressed by algorithms." One of the protagonists said this motto when reflecting on his journey with virtual life: "I want to create the common sense gained from living in the world for 20 years. , you must devote 20 years of effort.” 

 In my opinion, this points out the direction of AI democratization: only the continuous participation of the public can effectively shape consensus. Therefore, this year, I cooperated with the international non-governmental organization "Collective Intelligence Project" (CIP), and launched the "Alignment Conference" project with industry partners such as OpenAI and Anthropic. Through "[ideathon](https://ideathon.tw/polis )” has made taiwan the first place in the world to [align ai values](https://talk.polis.tw/) through citizen deliberation. 

At the end of "The Life Cycle of Virtual Creatures", with the patient companionship of the protagonists, the AI not only developed independent thinking and emotions, but also established a deep social connection. I sincerely hope that, starting from the attempt at the alignment conference, through the inheritance of experience without compression, the next generation of AI can absorb the "wisdom of all people" accumulated in the world for thousands of years, and grow into a smart partner who cares about the well-being of the community. 
