---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Travel through challenges to reach the stars"
  excerpt: "The monopoly cycle not only affects personal privacy security, but also hinders industrial innovation."
  image: "/assets/imgs/north-star-2869817_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位產業"
---


A few days ago, I had a video chat with Meredith Whittaker, President of Signal Foundation, on Taiwan Plus, the English audio-visual platform of Public Television, and we had many profound experiences. 

Signal is an open source communication software App that uses end-to-end encryption technology. Whitaker specifically pointed out that not only is the app unable to log messages, but even each user's "personal data", which is content that can indirectly identify personal information, is also completely encrypted. In other words, the Signal Foundation cannot obtain any personal information, and if anyone has concerns, they can confirm and correct the public code together. 

As one of Time Magazine’s top 100 most influential people in AI, Whitaker has unique insights into the Internet industry. She believes that a small number of cross-border platforms have formed a monopolistic cycle. They first have a huge infrastructure, invest a lot of money to train AI for precise delivery, and then collect huge amounts of personal data through advertising technology. After making profits, they continue to adjust the AI model, so as to continuously use personal data to make profits. 

Therefore, as a non-profit organization, Signal adheres to its core philosophy to "ensure meaningful communication privacy always exists" and hopes to break this monopolistic cycle. 

“The journey we sail is guided by the North Star in our hearts.” Regarding the development prospects, Whitaker gave a poetic comment, which also showed that the current situation has a long road ahead. Because the monopoly cycle not only affects personal privacy security, but also hinders industrial innovation. 

According to statistics from European telecom operators, the traffic generated by a few cross-border platforms accounts for 55% of Internet traffic. As a result, the telecom industry must continue to expand additional resources and infrastructure in order to maintain normal operations. In the long run, the Internet autonomy of individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises will inevitably be reduced. 

Talent and creativity are Taiwan’s most important advantages in the critical decade ahead. To prevent a few operators from monopolizing resources, network bandwidth is the core of "digital public construction", allowing talents to have no worries, effectively display their creativity and create new business models. Therefore, in September this year, the national 5G dedicated frequency private network promoted by the Digital Industry Administration officially began commercialization. 

The most important thing is that the "5G Vertical Industry Application Promotion Group" established by 13 industry association partners, together with the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, selected 33 practical application cases through public selection, including TV stations Using XR (covering three types of extended reality: virtual, augmented, and mixed), real-time remote virtual and real visits, Kaohsiung Exhibition Hall's 5G exhibition private network system, etc., have been implemented for fifteen months to help partners in various industries accelerate digital upgrades. 

 "Per aspera ad astra" is a Latin proverb that means "crossing challenges to reach the stars." This is what came to mind after the conversation between Whitaker and I. It is also what I think is the best way to address the digital transformation of the industry. describe. Starting from the construction of 5G, we will continue to open up channels so that the North Star in everyone's heart can become the most dazzling star. 
