---
  layout: "post"
  title: "T-Road and Zero Trust"
  excerpt: "Triple verification of identity, equipment, and behavior patterns, even for the head of the agency."
  image: "/assets/imgs/security-2168233_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位政府"
    - "資通安全"
---


A few days ago, my country's first administrative legal person responsible for information security, the National Institute of Information Security ([Information Security Institute](https://www.nics.nat.gov.tw/)) was formally established to serve the digital department has added a tough new force. coincidentally, the ministry of the interior has also revised the "[regulations on the application of various agencies to provide household registration information and relative information](https://www.moi.gov.tw/news_content.aspx?n=145&s=274867)". 

 These two incidents seem to be unrelated, but in fact they open a new page for "Information Security is National Security". 

In view of the fact that data exchange methods such as CDs and flash drives are prone to illegal copying, loss or theft, and cannot be tracked, the Ministry of the Interior has stopped providing household registration information to applicants through these methods since the end of last year. In other words, any agency's application for access to household registration information can only be done through the Government Internet Service Network (GSN). 

Referring to the experience of the Ministry of the Interior, all public agencies involved in personal information across the country will introduce the "Exclusive Channel for Inter-Agency Data Transmission (T-Road)" this year and next. The whole process of T-Road transmission is encrypted with agency certificates, and it is not connected to external service network segments, providing a more stringent guarantee for information security. 

Based on this, our next key policy is to fully introduce the "zero trust" system, combined with the T-Road network transmission management system, into public agencies with the highest level of information security. 

The basis of the traditional information security architecture is to distinguish between internal and external network permissions, and use a firewall to protect the internal network. The most common method is that the administrator must enter the intranet and enter the account password to log in to the background. 

However, entrusting protection only to firewalls and account secrets is like relying on only one anti-theft door and combination lock for the entire building. No matter how heavily guarded it is, as long as a person with a heart steals the password and passes through the access control, he can enter each floor and move freely in each room, causing serious consequences. 

The core concept of "zero trust" is "never trust, continuous verification": no matter when and where anyone enters any room, they must conduct triple verification of identity, equipment, and behavior patterns, even the head of the agency No exception. In this way, even if the attacker breaks into the hall by chance, other information cannot be obtained, because the three-factor authentication is different for each door. 

From these characteristics, it can be seen that for information systems that require a large amount of transmission and frequent exchanges with other units, zero trust can prevent interested people from stealing data at the sending and receiving ends. Complete identity verification traces and undeniable transmission records can more effectively detect abnormal behaviors of guarding and stealing. 

T-Road provides a watertight security channel, and "Zero Trust" complements a strict gatekeeping mechanism. Therefore, starting from the MyData platform of the digital department, before the end of this year, the T-Road management system will fully introduce a triple-authentication zero-trust system. The Information Security Institute, which recruits information security professionals and effectively integrates industry-university-research resources, is a system engineering partner that assists various agencies in introducing zero trust. 

In addition to assisting various agencies to strengthen information security measures, the Information Security Institute will also use public codes (Public Code) to develop a common system and assist various ministries in joint defense against major information security incidents, from "never trust, continue to verify" Starting from the zero trust architecture of the company, we will create a digital resilience of the whole people that "never stop, continue to improve". 
