---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Echoes of the past, sounds of the future"
  excerpt: "If AI is properly built into digital infrastructure, it does have the opportunity to \"help humans become better.\""
  image: "/assets/imgs/beatles-5364078_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "民主網絡"
    - "多元創新"
    - "數位策略"
---


Have you heard the Beatles’ new song? Recently, this legendary band, which has had two members pass away, released its latest single "Now And Then". Beatle Paul McCartney said it was AI that made it possible. 

Back then, John Lennon played and sang on the piano at home, and recorded it on tape. For years after his assassination, the band members tried to remake the song, but the sound quality was too fuzzy and had to be shelved. It was not until the technology matured in recent years that it was possible to successfully distinguish between singing and piano sounds, finally marking a sentimental and poetic end for The Beatles. 

While listening to John Lennon’s singing, I thought of Peter. Peter Eckersley. In recent years, Eckersley has observed that although AI has evolved rapidly, it has also gradually harmed human society. Therefore, he founded The AI Objectives Institute (AOI) last year, hoping that AI can "help humans become better." ”. 

However, just as preparations were in full swing, Eckersley died suddenly of cancer. Fortunately, AOI, with the support of all parties, continues to promote many experiments and research to this day. One of the pilot projects is "Talk to the City". 

"My City Dialogue" uses AI to classify messages, videos, conference speeches and other materials into various topics. In addition to fully presenting everyone's speech, AI can also learn the speaker's thinking mode and become a language model for dialogue, giving more people the opportunity to understand the views and opinions of people with different opinions. 

Previously, the Digital Department Diazong has used this mechanism to organize participants in the AI review workshop into topics such as "AI Ethics" and "Government Use of Data and AI". People who have not participated in the workshop can not only understand the different positions of the participants, but also continue to "dialogue" with the AI to find out the intersection of different opinions, and then make decisions that are in line with the consensus of all parties without harming anyone. 

The experiences of "Here and Now" and "My City Talk" have shown the world how AI transcends time and life and death, making the impossible possible: a band that has been disbanded for more than 50 years can also release new songs; Important discussions can continue long after they are over. It can be seen that if AI is properly built into digital infrastructure, it does have the opportunity to "help humans become better." 

For this reason, we will introduce AI public programs starting from the "Government Data Open Platform" to make it easier for users to find the open data they need, provide feedback and suggestions for correction, and prioritize the 1999 service hotline of each county and city government. Case, within four years, we will assist willing units, reduce the administrative burden on civil servants, and improve the convenience of people's access to public services. 

In the near future, AI will not just be an occasional digital tool used here and now. Through open source collaboration and social testing, we gradually promote responsible AI and become the cornerstone of an infinite future for you and me. 
