---
  layout: "post"
  title: "The era of a group of accounts going all over the Internet has come"
  excerpt: "Participate in the formulation of standards and synchronize with the world."
  image: "/assets/imgs/blockchain-3513216_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "民主網絡"
    - "數位產業"
    - "資通安全"
---


At the beginning of the new year, I would like to share a piece of good news with you: since January this year, the Digital Development Department has officially become a member of the international standards organization W3C (World Wide Web Association). It not only breaks through the predicament of only being able to join international organizations as a civilian, but also a milestone in the expansion of the "multiverse". 

At the same time, the Ministry of Digital Technology has also joined the FIDO Alliance, which develops and promotes safe and convenient identification standards, becoming the second Taiwan government unit member after joining the Ministry of the Interior in 2021. 

Because of the W3C standards, various websites can be displayed correctly on every mobile phone, tablet, and computer. In other words, even if you have a device, without its standards, you may not be able to interpret the content of the website. We will not be able to surf the Internet to catch up on dramas, buy groceries, or conduct any activities through the website. Its importance to the world can be seen. 

However, if you want to further interact with other people through the website, such as making videos and publishing articles, you almost always need to register and upload information first. However, account information on a single website often cannot be shared and circulated among different platforms. This not only leads to the monopoly of a few large cross-border platforms, but also limits everyone's independent right to use data. 

Therefore, many communities have developed their own "code portability" solutions, so that everyone can freely choose the most suitable creative environment, fully exercise their data rights, and create more exciting works together. However, there must be a global technical specification to make these solutions truly interoperable with each other. 

So in July 2022, W3C launched a brand-new decentralized identity verification standard (DIDs), allowing us to see the dawn of a new generation of digital services. This set of standards allows everyone to directly verify each other's identities without going through an intermediary service. 

We might as well think of this identity mark as an "Internet Passport". This passport allows everyone to carry their own digital assets; whether it is social posts, photos or videos, it is no longer the cross-border platform that controls these contents, but returns to each creator himself. 

If W3C proposes a set of standards for verifying passports, allowing everyone to have their own digital identities; then the FIDO Alliance is responsible for ensuring the security of this passport. 

The FIDO Alliance, established in 2013, is an international non-profit organization jointly established by the information industry. Their original intention is to solve the problem of authentication identity. In the past, when logging in to website services, you had to type in your password, which was not only difficult to save, but also faced risks such as account theft and identity fraudulent use. 

Therefore, the FIDO Alliance formulated the standard of "password-free login", and developed various passports for W3C, plus security locks and keys. In this way, everyone can use their passports more safely to roam in the Internet space. 

As a member of two major international organizations, the Ministry of Digital Affairs will participate in the formulation of standards according to the needs of all walks of life in Taiwan, and synchronize with the world, and immediately introduce these emerging standards into government agencies, civil society and the industry to practice" Co-existence, code-carrying interoperability" multiverse. 
