---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Public-private joint defense, precise fraud"
  excerpt: "Not only catch leaks at the end, but also stop them from the source."
  image: "/assets/imgs/hands-1947915_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位產業"
    - "數位政府"
---


A while ago, the Executive Yuan approved the "Fraud Action Program 1.5" and established the "Fraud Office". At the same time, I received suggestions from readers of the column, hoping that I would share the actual actions of the digital department in preventing fraud. 

In fact, fraud not only affects governance and the economy, but the more serious consequence is the destruction of social trust. 

Once government units are impersonated by gangsters, important messages will not be effectively conveyed to the public; if e-commerce platforms are impersonated, consumers will find it difficult to trust them and reduce their willingness to consume. 

To combat fraud, the first step is to prevent the source of fraud and prevent personal information from being stolen. Therefore, the digital department is fully promoting "Short Code SMS" and "Logistic Hidden Code" to help the industry strengthen information security and reduce personal information leakage. 

There are so many text messages on mobile phones that everyone receives every day, which one is the real message? The Ministry of Digital Affairs has planned a government-specific SMS short code for this purpose. This group of numbers can only be sent by government agencies. It is expected to be launched in the fourth quarter of this year, so that everyone can clearly identify it and prevent criminals from counterfeiting. 

Just like the anti-fraud consultation line "165" and other government-specific numbers, they are easy to remember and will not be tampered with. After this group of short codes is determined, the digital department will coordinate with the telecom operators to conduct technical checks in advance. 

In addition, we are promoting e-commerce partners to introduce "hidden code technology" to replace the consignee's contact number on the order with representative numbers and codes. Logistics personnel only need to dial the code to contact the consignee, and the public can also contact the logistics through the code. Not only is it convenient and easy to remember, but it can also prevent the leakage of personal information. 

The second step in fighting fraud is to prevent the end of fraud and prevent the flow of money from being released even if personal information is unfortunately outflowed. This is the "platform joint defense" implemented by the Digital Department. 

The e-commerce anti-fraud joint defense platform is jointly established by the Ministry of Digital Technology and the Public Association, and Taiwan Network Center (TWNIC). After an e-commerce partner discovers a fraudulent website and reports it to 165, using the public association as a contact window, Taiwan Network Center can stop analyzing fraudulent domain names more quickly, preventing domestic users from being deceived. 

The game point fraud joint defense platform is jointly established by the Digital Department, the Procuratorate, the Money Laundering Prevention Office of the Executive Yuan, and the game point industry. It provides "game entry delay forty-eight hours", "point prevention Fraud lock card platform" and other services. When the public finds that they have been scammed, they can go to the platform to lock it, and then go to the original purchase store to refund the fee, which can reduce losses. 

From March this year to now, the card lock platform has successfully locked hundreds of transactions, and the number of reported transactions has also been reduced from 1,500 per month to less than 100. 

The public-private joint defense mechanism promoted by the Digital Department is also applied to virtual accounts. Once the bank discovers that the virtual account is illegal, it can report to the Financial Supervisory Commission through the joint defense platform, and then the digital department will conduct an inspection according to law. For illegal cash flows, we cooperate with the Financial Supervisory Commission to establish a third-party payment inquiry system to assist relevant units to obtain relevant account information in the shortest possible time. 

The goal of the digital department to fight fraud is to build a resilient protective net, not only to catch leaks at the end, but also to stop them from the source. We will continue to share specific practices and implementation results, and readers are welcome to give their opinions to make the policy better. 
