---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Ten years of open data, opening up an infinite future"
  excerpt: "Promote public welfare data and data applications, and assist the sustainable use of scarce earth resources."
  image: "/assets/imgs/earth-gab4518d56_1920.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "多元創新"
---


This April is an important milestone in the development of open data in Taiwan, and it is the tenth anniversary of the launch of the "Government Data Open Platform". Today, the platform has opened more than 55,000 data sets, with more than 113 million views and more than 19 million downloads. 

Over the years, on the basis of open data, there have been many creative applications to solve social problems, such as the irrigation mechanism combined with rainfall warnings, and the smart system developed to help fish farmers raise Meretrix meretrix. Great idea from the competition. 

The key to the success of these ideas is the continuous release of various "high application value" materials by various agencies. 

In the past, many high-value application data rich in public welfare value, such as meteorological observation and disaster relief resources, were often hindered by legal restrictions and computing restrictions, and could not be easily released to the outside world. For a decade, the government has continued to overcome all odds to make information available to the public. 

For example, the "Innovative Application Plan for Meteorological Resources" announced by the Central Meteorological Administration in 2022 opens up legal persons and enterprises to apply for high-precision meteorological data and resources, which not only allows weather forecasts to become more accurate, but also The development of analysis of meteorology and ocean currents in individual fields can also provide further applications in industries such as fishery and shipping. 

This case fully presents that high-value application data has the opportunity to connect different industries and professions. The Ministry of Digital Technology has also set up a "high application value theme area" on the government information open platform after soliciting opinions from various ministries and committees and the public. 

Different from the business or institution as the classification basis in the past, we differentiate the "themes" according to the social value and data content, and first classify the climate environment, disaster prevention and rescue, transportation, health care, energy management, social assistance and other six data sets. Thematic design not only helps to find information, but also allows the relationship between different materials to be seen at a glance, stimulating more collaboration. 

Taking the "climate environment" data set as an example, it can contribute to the transition to net zero. The goal of "net zero" is to minimize man-made greenhouse gas emissions and offset emissions through negative carbon technologies and forest carbon sinks. In response to the 2021 United Nations Glasgow Climate Agreement, Taiwan also proposed the "2050 Net Zero Emissions Pathway" in March last year, and officially implemented the "Climate Change Response Act" this year. 

The theme of this year's President's Cup Hackathon, "#FreeTheFuture: Open, Digital & Green", combines the three main axes of democratic communication, data application, and achieving net zero carbon emissions, which is the interactive use of cross-domain data best chance. 

Earth's natural resources are often less and less left to future generations due to excessive use by humans, so they are regarded as competitive wealth. But open data is just the opposite. It is an "anti-rival good". The more it is shared, the higher its value, and it contributes to both ourselves and the world. 

Digital Department will continue to open and promote non-profit data and data applications to assist the sustainable use of scarce earth resources, and welcome more friends to join us. 
