---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Let drones fly with trust"
  excerpt: "The joint testing laboratory has set an important milestone for \"Trust Technology\"."
  image: "/assets/imgs/drone-ttc.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、彭筱婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "韌性建設"
    - "資通安全"
---


A while ago, my colleagues in the Telecommunications Technology Center (TTC) and I began to discuss the direction of transformation. TTC, under the supervision of the Department of Digital Technology, has made great contributions to the development of telecommunications in the past two decades, from code-carrying services, testing technology to policy think tanks. 

In recent years, TTC has fully invested in the development of information security protection and achieved fruitful results. It also makes us think about expanding the "Telecom" in the English name to "Trusted Technology Center". In line with its core business of helping to strengthen digital resilience. 

The "Drone Information Security Joint Test Laboratory" officially established on March 1st, assisted by the National Science Council and jointly built by TTC and industry partners, has set an important record for "Trust Tech" milestone. 

UAVs can break through terrain restrictions, and have become an important auxiliary tool from agricultural and forestry surveys to disaster relief. Therefore, the government continues to develop plans for the development of the UAV industry, and combines the energy of industry, government, academia and research to establish the "Taiwan UAV Alliance." 

However, cases of unmanned aerial vehicles being used for attacks and surveillance by some interested people have been heard so far. It has not only become a new information security challenge, but also an important national security issue. 

In January of this year, the Joint Test Laboratory, which is still in the preparatory stage, announced the "UAV Security Specifications" based on the opinions of experts and industry representatives from all walks of life. The content covers the three core testing items of the laboratory, including Manufacturer information security maturity, product information security, and site information security. 

Taking the first item of manufacturer information security maturity as an example, it is like providing a "security design blueprint" so that the industry can follow clear requirements. The laboratory will check the development process, supply chain, and software and hardware bill of materials management security to ensure the security of the drone development environment and correctly introduce security into product functions. 

The second product information security can be regarded as a "health check" for drones. The laboratory is like a health examination center, like providing health examination packages with different safety levels for drones. The higher the number of detection levels that can pass, the more complete the security protection will be. In addition to providing health checks for drones, the laboratory will also analyze problems and produce a complete report for industry reference. 

In addition, the third field information security is to strengthen the protection of the UAV activity field to avoid being affected by the environment and other equipment, such as interference during data transmission. Just like in addition to excellent health checkups, we must also pay attention to external risk factors. Only by maintaining a good living environment and diet can we truly ensure our health. 

Therefore, the laboratory will also follow the "Guidelines for the Evaluation of Internet of Things Field Information Security Protection" announced by the Taiwan Information and Communications Industry Standards Association, through the processes of threat modeling, vulnerability detection, penetration testing, and impact analysis. Suggestions for improving field information security. 

We hope that TTC will not only assist the competent authority, the Ministry of Communications, to jointly establish domestic detection capabilities, but also be in line with international information security standards, and help the industry become a new force in the global drone industry. The Department of Digital Technology and TTC will continue to uphold the spirit of trust in technology to ensure information security that is "easy to defend, hard to attack, tough and reliable". 

