---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Data governance is wise, data public welfare is reasonable"
  excerpt: "The mechanism of \"free flow and trustworthy data\" is the top priority of cross-border cooperation."
  image: "/assets/imgs/binary-ga626d4a1f_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "多元創新"
---


This book is the crystallization of wisdom jointly created by digital governance academic circles and practical circles after "Government Digital Transformation: A Must-Read Introductory Book". This time the group of authors focused on "Government Data Governance" and once again demonstrated their profound professionalism. 

If digital transformation is compared to the industrial revolution, data is the new energy that turns the wheel of the times; just as the development and application of energy is critical to the success or failure of industrial development, data management can be regarded as the key cornerstone of digital transformation. 

Today, with the popularization of audio-visual and language models, translation, customer service, marketing, creation and other industries are all impacted by generative technology. Just like the leap in refining technology, fossil fuels have been freed from their original uses such as lighting and heating. Not only has the powerful power of land, sea and air vehicles been refined, but also countless plasticized products have entered all aspects of life in food, clothing, housing, transportation, and entertainment; the foundation model (foundation The prevalence of models) has prompted a global rush to invest in the application and development of data, swaying endless creativity. 

However, just as petrochemical products have caused the climate crisis and ecological catastrophe, so that the pursuit of clean energy has become the challenge of the century; the basic model is closely related to huge amounts of data from training to application. If there is no good governance foundation, digital ecological catastrophe can be said is imminent, and the interactive deepfakes ahead of us are just the tip of the iceberg. 

Fortunately, the international community is paying close attention to governance issues, expecting legal ethics and technology to go hand in hand. At the end of April this year, the G7 Digital Technology Ministerial Meeting held in Japan issued a joint statement, declaring that it will promote the "people-oriented" public welfare value and oppose improper applications that threaten democracy, freedom, and human rights. The statement echoes the spirit of the "Democratic Summit Declaration" and "Future Internet Declaration", pointing out that the construction of a "Data Free Flow with Trust (DFFT)" (Data Free Flow with Trust, DFFT) mechanism is the top priority for cross-border collaboration. 

In other words, in the face of fast-growing technologies such as basic models, even if there are doubts about the infringement of human rights and democracy, "free circulation" is still the primary value of cross-border data governance, rather than building deep trenches and high fortresses Isolated islands, let alone return to the ancestral land, through government supervision, ignorantly reject data circulation, turning advanced countries into "pre-ban" countries. 

The five principles put forward in the statement are "use of innovative opportunities", "rule of law", "due process", "democracy", and "respect for human rights". For the value and protection of the data subject. Like the well-known fable, if the governments of various countries cannot sincerely face the abandoned iron axe, they will not be rewarded with gold and silver axes. 

Digital Department was established under the expectation of all walks of life, shouldering the mission of "Government Digital Services, Data Governance and Openness". As an assistant to the legal system and ethical norms, we promote privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) and actively guide e-commerce and logistics companies to introduce them, precisely to reduce the risk of personal data leakage. 

Observing international trends, the European Union has recently advocated privacy-enhancing processing, and actively converts high-value application data into data that does not involve personal information (ie, "data", non-personal data), so as to promote applications from all walks of life, create public interest. 

As far as our country is concerned, all public welfare applications such as climate environment, disaster prevention and rescue, transportation, health care, energy management, and social assistance have corresponding "high application value" themes on the data.gov.tw platform , Inspiring a steady stream of innovative solutions. In the past ten years, the platform has attracted 113 million views and more than 19 million downloads. Through activities such as the "President's Cup Hackathon", it has become a practice of co-creation by the whole people. 

In other words, the "oil theory" quoted in this book is probably only half correct; oil and minerals are competitive goods, but data is just the opposite, with "non-excludability" and "non-competition". Under the governance environment created by technology, the characteristics of "anti-rival good" (anti-rival good) can be brought into play: the more you share, the higher the value, which contributes to both individuals and the world. 

That is to say, only in a trusted environment of free circulation can the concept of "data altruism" proposed by the EU's Data Governance Act (DGA) be implemented: The holders of all parties voluntarily provide data to drive social development and improve the quality of public services. 

With the popularization of the basic model, the vision of "Data Democratization" in Chapter 10 of this book is about to be realized. Everyone is expected to become a producer and user, and "Data Governance" has also become the core issue of digital development. I believe that the publication of this book will definitely lead all walks of life to make data governance wise and reasonable—only by gathering the wisdom of all can we connect with each other, promote a good co-creation and collaboration relationship, accomplish everyone's business, and realize rational and restrained "data public welfare" ". It is for sequence. 
