---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Democracy Summit: Promoting innovation that respects human rights"
  excerpt: "No democratic country is an island—especially Taiwan."
  image: "/assets/imgs/20240318.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "民主網絡"
---


Hello local time everyone. I am Tang Feng, a digital minister from Taiwan. 

I am extremely honored to be able to represent Taiwan at the Democracy Summit again. Facing the challenges posed by AI and emerging technologies, it is of great significance for global allies with similar ideas to gather together for the third time. The question we all face is: How to promote innovation that respects human rights in a democratic society? 

In Taiwan, we believe the answer lies in our belief that the power of co-creation is enough to shape results that are in the collective interest. Our general election in January this year is the best example: evil forces directed by authoritarians will use any means to destroy our information environment and interfere with the election results. 

However, governments and people of all political persuasions have united to fight off conspiracies that seek to sow the seeds of division and discord. I am proud to say that in this year of elections in many countries around the world, we have clearly demonstrated what can be achieved by more committed to democracy and working together to open up a limitless future. 

Faced with increasingly serious cyber attacks, our Digital Development Department has launched a comprehensive defense. Taiwan is suffering from a disproportionately high number of cyber attacks, and the situation is very dangerous; cyber attack traffic against Taiwan has increased by more than 6 times quarterly, and has surged by more than 33 times compared with the same period in 2022. 

In response to these cyber attacks, we have vigorously responded through rigorous drills and tests to ensure the stable operation of critical infrastructure and important websites. Facts have proved that the 24/7 rapid response team and front-line monitoring system have been effective, resulting in a 22% reduction in Denial of Service attacks (DDoS) security incidents. 

Another secret to our success is “pre-bunking”: responding to controversial information before it goes viral. The key purpose of this is to increase mutual trust rather than simply correct the facts. Research shows that good upfront clarification can have far-reaching benefits by helping to uncover manipulation tactics. People who learn to recognize these tactics can build strong mental defenses. 

The private collaboration platform &quot;True and Fake&quot; also played a key role. The platform analyzes and evaluates controversial information that is difficult to distinguish between true and false based on its accuracy and persuasiveness. With the assistance of the AI instant clarification system deployed by the g0v community, the public can make informed judgments on the authenticity of the content. 

By supporting innovation in an open and transparent manner and fully respecting the United Nations&#39; Universal Declaration of Human Rights and various conventions, we are building bridges and finding solutions at home and abroad. After all, no democratic country is an island — least of all Taiwan. 

Nearly 40 countries will hold general elections this year, and AI may amplify risks through deep forgery, stratification, and precise delivery. Extremism, polarization, and isolation amplified by social platforms are reshaping geopolitics. 

As a responsible member of the international community, Taiwan is willing and able to work together with all stakeholders to ensure the sound and sustainable development of AI. We believe that a democratic approach, rather than one led solely by technologists, is the best solution to this moral, political and social dilemma. 

To this end, we are working with world-class partners such as the Collective Intelligence Project (CIP), Anthropic, OpenAI, The GovLab, and the GETTING-Plurality Research Network to promote the &quot;Alignment Assemblies&quot;. We have invited more than 100,000 people to participate in the governance of AI in the context of complete information. For example: protecting users from harm, detecting and labeling content generated by AI, requiring advertisers to provide digital signatures, making AI systems transparent, promoting citizen supervision and fact-checking, and continuously monitoring AI incidents. 

Democratic deliberation and strengthening social resilience. Over time, our AI-related specifications will also be incorporated into common global standards, further enhancing Taiwan&#39;s status as a reliable and trustworthy partner. And this is just one of the many ways Taiwan is helping to defend democracy, fight authoritarianism, and build a better tomorrow for all. 

Thank you for listening. Let us work closely together to make 2024 a year of revitalized democracy, working together to promote freedom, human rights and peace for all. I wish you endless life and prosperity! 

 <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZIwebiobCD4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> 
