---
  layout: "post"
  title: "AI’s Path to Becoming Human"
  excerpt: "Realistic AI is a weapon for fraud; it is also the best assistant for productivity and creativity."
  image: "/assets/imgs/piano-7303732_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳、方歆婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位產業"
---


The reason why generative AI is amazing, but also worrying, is that it can become more and more "human". 

For example, just take a few photos and you can synthesize a human face that has no flaw in 360 degrees. 

 Or record a voice speaking a few words. In just fifteen seconds, you can collect a voiceprint model, and then you can speak in the same tone to deceive your relatives and friends. 

To use AI to imitate real people, in addition to appearance and voice, it also includes behavior on the Internet. 

For example, where to like? Where do you often leave messages? In addition to actively typing and taking photos to provide this information, there are also many websites or apps that can simulate the user's preferences just by relying on which page their attention stays on for a long time. 

With just a few changes, the AI model trained in this way can be transformed into thousands of different "virtual people" in the online world. For example, there is a popular article with thousands of comments underneath. At first glance, the discussion seems lively, but in fact it is often different avatars synthesized by the same AI system to create specific emotions and even intensify opposition. 

These messages are different from the previous canned messages. You can tell they are fake at a glance. Nowadays, with generative AI, each account has a different headshot, and can add friends, check in, take photos, and have a life history like a real person. When operations are needed at a specific time, they will swarm somewhere to leave a message. 

To make these "virtual people" more integrated into the human world, real people still need to perform "alignment tuning" on them, which is like teaching children, telling them which answers are more acceptable to us and which are not. , can the AI's response be closer to that of humans. 

Realistic AI is a weapon for fraud; it is also the best assistant for productivity and creativity. The tools are the same, and their behavior depends on who is using them. 

At the end of last year, the automatic alignment technology "Constitutional AI" I mentioned in the column "Super Intelligent Alignment" is now open source and can be used freely by anyone. As long as a group of people write down a principle document on "How should AI answer better?" people with different attributes and cultures will have different preferences, just like the customs and customs of different countries, and people will have different perceptions. 

For example, for a question, the journalism industry will hope that AI will pursue the authenticity of the source. If there is not enough evidence to support it, the AI system would rather say that it does not know, rather than reply with a imaginary answer. 

However, for a group of science fiction writers, the requirements may be exactly the opposite. Instead, they would like the AI to be as creative as possible, even if it is nonsense, as long as it looks fascinating. 

Therefore, the AI trained by the two "constitutions" will react in completely different ways. There is no one-size-fits-all AI system. Only through alignment and fine-tuning can the AI system be closer to the user and interact more like a "human". 
