---
  layout: "post"
  title: "AI cure AI"
  excerpt: "Let the \"digital signature\" be as effective as a seal certificate, unique and cannot be counterfeited."
  image: "/assets/imgs/key-hole-1262417_1280.jpg"
  author: "唐鳳"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位產業"
---


In the past, one-page fraudulent e-commerce websites were popular, but the number of this type of websites removed from the shelves in 2022 was less than 3,000. After the establishment of the Digital Development Department, through technical obstacles, the number of items removed from the shelves increased to more than 30,000 in 2023, which is equivalent to nearly 100 items per day. 

In the past, fraud groups used real people to make phone calls, which could only be done one-on-one. If they wanted to impersonate celebrities, they might need to be trained to imitate them first. But as AI technology becomes more mature, fraud is also "empowered". 

Two years ago, deepfake technology emerged. In order to help everyone get vaccinated, I invited actors to deepfake myself and made a video. Because the facial features are similar, if no other explanation is given, the audience will only think that Tang Feng's appearance has changed, and will not know that it is actually another person. 

The production of this film does not require advanced equipment or high costs. It uses publicly available technologies and can be completed with a laptop in twelve hours. It is not a big project. 

Nowadays, fraud groups have used AI to communicate with people on communication software. In addition to using text, there are also sounds, and even videos, giving people the illusion of talking to celebrities, and then they are deceived. 

Because AI can chat with tens of thousands of people at the same time, many people can be deceived at once, causing serious harm. 

The Digital Department "uses AI to make AI" and has developed technologies such as "fraud pattern analysis" and "anti-fraud radar". It scans out thousands of suspicious advertisements and e-commerce products every day on average and provides them to large platforms for review. Follow up and handle it, and prevent e-commerce stores from taking it down. 

The Legislative Yuan also passed an amendment to the Securities Investment Trust and Consultancy Act last year, making the platform jointly and severally liable: when a victim testifies that he was deceived because he saw an advertisement on the platform, and the advertisement was reported When notified but not removed within 24 hours, the platform will be liable for joint and several damages no matter how much the victim was deceived. 

For us, the fraud syndicate is a balance between attack and defense. As audio and video synthesis technology advances rapidly and becomes more and more deceptive, we have to use things that are more difficult to fake to make it more difficult for fraudulent advertisements to be put on the shelves. 

The best way to prevent fraud is to be "authentic". What represents a person’s true identity? Our solution is a "digital signature" that is difficult to forge. 

Natural person certificates, industrial and commercial certificates, organization and group certificates, although these certificates have been used in China for many years, before the amendment of the law, they were not presumed to be personally signed by the person. The purpose of this revision of the "Electronic Signature Law" is to make the "digital signature" as effective as a seal certificate, unique and unable to be counterfeited. 

In the future, if you want to put investment advertisements on large platforms, you must use a digital signature to prove that you are the person or that a celebrity has authorized it before you can advertise in his name. 

When an advertisement is reported as suspicious and withdrawn, the person concerned must use a new name if he wants to put it on the shelves again, but the fraudster cannot always go to the household registration office to change his name. 

Entering the AI era, seeing is no longer enough. The defender must also take the initiative in order to fight AI with AI. 
