---
  layout: "post"
  title: "See how new technology can be grounded from the perspective of dispatch orders"
  excerpt: "\"my moda\" is an internal democratic system in the digital department, where nearly 600 colleagues can put forward innovative proposals."
  image: "/assets/imgs/blank-2970215_1280.jpg\""
  author: "唐鳳、方歆婷"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "數位策略"
---


The vehicle dispatch form is a document that needs to be filled in when using an official vehicle. On a small document, there are dozens of fields, from the name of the applicant, the purpose of dispatching the car, to the driving time, mileage, fuel volume, etc. filled in by the driver. Finally, it is handed over to the management unit and needs to be logged in again. Enter the system for future search. 

After digitization, this administrative process has been moved to online processing, which can save the time of manual registration, but it is very troublesome for drivers who are not used to inputting on mobile phones. 

This is the most common problem in the transition from paper to digital: one party's problem is solved, but the burden is placed on the other party, but both parties have a say. What should we do at this time? 

The chief wants to understand the experience of the front line. In the past, he often used focus interviews, or employees posted their opinions to the minister's mailbox. However, even if they took the time to read them one by one, it was often difficult to find a solution that satisfied both parties. 

Then let’s hear what everyone has to say! 

 "my moda" is an internal democratic system of the Digital Department. Nearly 600 colleagues can put forward innovative proposals or provide specific and effective solutions to the problems faced by current governance. On the discussion platform, if 30 likes are received within ten working days, the proposal will be handed over to the relevant unit to study the feasibility, and the content of the proposal will be strengthened before being voted on by colleagues. 

After five working days of voting, if the proposal is approved by 100 votes, the proposal will be broadcast live every month by the minister to further discuss and explain the processing situation with everyone. Participants can anonymously ask questions online. Proposals will be adopted only after consensus is obtained. 

When we are doing digital transformation, what we worry about most is that we don’t know what the actual needs are. We just go from top to bottom without solving the problem, but create new problems. 

However, if we can know in advance that more than one-sixth of our colleagues have certain common needs, we can directly prescribe the right medicine to solve the problems of most people first. 

Going back to the example of dispatching a car, the common wish of the demanders is to save effort, but the solutions are different. Everyone can put forward opinions on the discussion platform and live broadcast to see what new foundations should be adopted in order to take into account the interests of multiple parties. 

The final decision on the case was to introduce OCR (computer text recognition) technology so that drivers can still choose to write by hand, because instead of uploading numbers on the mileage dashboard, it is fastest for drivers to write a few words. 

However, the subsequent processing procedures are fully digitized and rely on generative AI to automatically capture the fields on the paper, so there is no need to hire a special person to type. 

After digitizing these dispatch orders, more innovative proposals can be formed through statistics and analysis. For example, looking at the reasons for dispatching cars, the most frequent one is to send confidential documents. Let’s think about it further: How can confidential documents be encrypted end-to-end and fully introduced online for sign-off, so as to save more time? 

Through the internal democratic mechanism, the integration between users and new technologies has gradually become smoother, giving the most basic dispatch order a new value. 
