---
  layout: "post"
  title: "Local partners to create an Asian future"
  excerpt: "One of our missions is to recognize friends who solve social problems together and help solve problems for everyone."
  image: "/assets/imgs/08b38a4651ca9cf8163529894a98ad0627de97f5.jpg"
  author: "Audrey Tang, Sheau-Tyng Peng, Shou-Bin Wei, Wendy Hsueh"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "Social Enterprise"
---


 🌏 At the beginning of May, I went to Taichung to participate in the Asia-Pacific Social Enterprise Summit of Tomorrow Asia with more than 30 international speakers from 15 countries. This event, which was hosted by the Social Enterprise, the Magpie Foundation, and the Eli International, attracted thousands of people, let me see the connection between Taiwan and the world. 

🐟 Inside and outside the venue, more than 30 sessions and more than 60 booths have made me different and amazing. One of the most impressive is the conversation with Gavin Armstrong, founder of Lucky Little Ironfish. Before the meeting, when I asked Gavin for a personal profile, he did not talk about himself, and completely focused on the seriousness of the iron deficiency problem in the world. 

 This attitude is also reflected in the operation of Lucky Little Ironfish, which is to brainstorm with the people and find local solutions – such as the “fish” they built in Cambodia, and the majority of vegetarians. India has changed to the shape of &quot;leaves&quot;. With such meticulous care, we have implemented the social innovation spirit of &quot;focusing on social issues, inspiring innovation through innovation, and leading innovation through innovation&quot;. 

 The same feelings come from the team of &quot;Pears want to live&quot; in Taichung. They combine design, small farmers and other social enterprise partners to transform the pear stems of high pears into unique ones. Think of the pen, solve the problem of air pollution caused by burning pear stems. The social enterprise market has stringped up the local agriculture, crafts, cultural and creative ecosystems, so that friends from all over the world can see the thickness of life and social connections in Taiwan. In addition, this summit successfully enabled the speakers from all walks of life to come up with social issues such as silver hair, food and agriculture, environmental green energy, and weak employment. They not only shared how social innovation can change their lives, but also participate. The examples are presented from a complementary perspective. This kind of discussion makes the issue more stereoscopic, and it also encourages those who participate to understand how to combine multiple forces and respond to the concept of “cross-sector partnership” (SDG 17.17) in the sustainable development goals. 

 When I was in a cross-departmental discussion, I proposed the analogy: government agencies are like NPOs (non-profit organizations). One of our missions is to recognize friends who solve social problems together and help solve problems for everyone. 

🌄 As Vice President Chen Jianren said in his speech, the government is working with the community to plan a &quot;social innovation action plan&quot; for the next few years. It is expected that through &quot;value cultivation, capital acquisition, innovation, regulation, and regulation, Strategies such as promoting expansion and international links, continue to integrate resources across ministries, assist friends who are interested in innovation, and find common solutions to social problems. And I am very happy to be one of them. 

 <center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/QtykZeZRe88" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe></center> 
