---
  layout: "post"
  title: "National Action Plan-the key to opening up the government's international connection"
  excerpt: "Opening up the government is not only what Taiwan is doing, but also what the whole world is doing."
  image: "/assets/imgs/668c94cc34924c206c56ed1a9a2441c7386f119b.jpeg"
  author: "唐鳳、許恩恩"
  category: "blog"
  tags: 
    - "開放政府"
---



Internationally, there is an organization called "Open Government Partnership Alliance" (OGP, [Open Government Partnership](https://www.opengovpartnership.org/)). I have attended OGP together with non-governmental partners for many years. In the conference, share the case of Taiwan, and get to know many partners with close philosophies. 

Now this internationally-used mechanism has officially entered our government departments. After the efforts of the National Development Council and various ministries and committees, the Executive Yuan announced the launch of the "Open Government National Action Plan" (NAP, National Action Plan) last year. 

Submission and independent review of national action plans is the main method for OGP alliance member states to operate an open government. Although we have not formally become a member state, we have already used different forms to practice the concept of open government. For example, in my office, PDIS establishes an "open government liaison officer" (PO, Participation Officer) within the administrative system, and combines the network proposal of the Join platform to sign, and each department will submit their own needs to handle "cooperative meetings", which is to practice open government. A mode of idea. 

Not only the government, Taiwan’s private communities are also implementing the concept of citizen participation in various policies, public issues, counties, cities, and communities, gradually strengthening the transparency and openness of information, and thinking about more inclusive discussions. Mode, and a more accountable mechanism design. On the basis of these experiences, the first "Open Government National Action Plan Promotion Group" of the Executive Yuan collected various issues and regions from civil partners as members, and worked in partnership with the administrative department. 

On May 12, 2021, I, Chairman of the National Development Council Gong Mingxin, and private co-convenor Peng Qiming co-chaired "[Taiwan Open Government National Action Plan](https://www.ndc.gov.tw /nc_27_33924)" Press Conference. At the press conference, you can see various organizations that have long promoted open culture, open information, parliamentary supervision, community building, and public welfare values, as well as civil partners who pay attention to and practice gender, ethnic group, and youth issues. 

my country's "independent research and development" of the national action plan, which is to compile the NAP in accordance with the OGP standards, is a big challenge to the actual implementation of the public sector colleagues. Therefore, the National Development Council also cooperates with the Open Culture Foundation (OCF, Open Culture Foundation) to organize workshops. Partners in our office join and assist, and implement the spirit of citizen cooperation from the level of basic training. 

In addition to training, there are also many "co-creation" sessions throughout the discussion of topics and programs, which are called "Multi-Stakeholder Forum" (MSF, Multi-Stakeholder Forum) internationally. In fact, this is similar to the spirit emphasized by our usual "collaboration meeting", except for the difference in form and conclusion strength. In the process of research and implementation of NAP, various ministries and committees have handled many MSFs, that is, many research and business discussions co-created with the private sector. These meeting materials and records have been published on the website of the National Development Conference. 

Behind the various abbreviations of English nouns, it is not to use more complicated rules to increase the burden of the administrative department, nor to highlight the unconventional measures, but a language that connects with the world. Starting from mutual understanding and translation, OGP has many documents in English. With the assistance of the private community, the National Development Council has also completed the translation of many content, [and publicly on the website](https://www.ndc.gov .tw/content_list.aspx?n=0c5ab1d0fa5b64b8). 

The focus of various organizational structures and mechanism designs is still returning to the concept of open government: transparency, participation, accountability, and tolerance. We must not only establish domestic civil and partnership relations, but also international civil and partnership relations. These efforts are based on the accumulated experience in China to find vocabulary for communication with international partners. 

For the first time to independently develop a national action plan, the Executive Yuan's Open Government National Action Plan Promotion Group launched five major categories: "Maximize Open Data Value-Added Applications", "Expand Public Policy Mechanisms for Public Participation", and "Increase Gender And ethnic inclusive dialogue mechanism", "implementing clean governance" and "implementing money laundering prevention" and other commitments. 

Our current NAP schedule is until May 2024. During this period, there is a time point for the establishment of inspections, but it is not for the purpose of catching up with the progress and fighting targets, but for the process of brewing, learning and co-creating policies. The national action plan not only reflects the results of the hard work of officials from relevant ministries and associations, but also requires the active participation of non-governmental partners in various fields in order to thrive. Joining the ranks of open government from all walks of life is not only to give advice, but also to work together as partners. 


